“A Classic From  
The Diamond’s Mine Library”  
The Richest  Man In Babylon 
1926  
George S. Clason
1  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Richest Man In Babylon  
1926  
Public Domain Notice  
This classic writing compliments of The Diamond’s Mine Online Library. It is  public domain and may be distributed freely. 
  

2  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Index  
About The Author ...................................................... 6 Foreword ................................................................ 7 An Historical Sketch of Babylon ..................................... 8 The Man Who Desired Gold..........................................14 The Richest Man In Babylon.........................................20 Seven Cures For a Lean Purse ......................................30 
The First Cure .........................................................34 Start thy purse to fattening.................................................... 34 
The Second Cure ......................................................37 Control thy expenditures....................................................... 37 
The Third Cure ........................................................39 Make thy gold multiply. ......................................................... 39 
The Fourth Cure.......................................................41 Guard thy treasures from loss. ................................................ 41 
The Fifth Cure .........................................................43 Make of thy dwelling a profitable investment. ............................ 43 
The Sixth Cure.........................................................45 Insure a future income.......................................................... 45 
The Seventh Cure .....................................................47 Increase thy ability to earn. ................................................... 47
3  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Meet the Goddess of Good Luck....................................50 
The Five Laws of Gold................................................62 THE FIVE LAWS OF GOLD ....................................................... 66 The First Law of Gold............................................................ 70 The Second Law of Gold ........................................................ 70 The Third Law of Gold........................................................... 70 The Fourth Law of Gold......................................................... 71 The Fifth Law of Gold ........................................................... 71 
The Gold Lender of Babylon ........................................73 The Walls of Babylon .................................................84 The Camel Trader of Babylon.......................................88 
The Clay Tablets From Babylon ....................................98 Tablet No. I ........................................................................ 99 Tablet No. II...................................................................... 100 Tablet No. III..................................................................... 101 Tablet No. IV..................................................................... 101 Tablet No. V ..................................................................... 103 
The Luckiest Man In Babylon...................................... 107
4  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Ahead of you stretches your future like a road leading into the distance.  Along that road are ambitions you wish to accomplish…desires you wish to  gratify.  
To bring your ambitions and desires to fulfillment, you must be successful  with money. Use the financial principles made clear in the pages which  follow. Let them guide you away from the stringencies of a lean purse to  that fuller, happier life a full purse makes possible.  
Like the law of gravity, they are universal and unchanging. May they prove  for you, as they have proven to so many others, a sure key to a fat purse,  larger bank balances and gratifying financial progress.  
LO, MONEY IS PLENTIFUL  
FOR THOSE WHO UNDERSTAND  
THE SIMPLE RULES OF ITS ACQUISITION  
1. Start thy purse to fattening  
2. Control thy expenditures  
3. Make thy gold multiply  
4. Guard thy treasures from loss  
5. Make of thy dwelling a profitable investment  
6. Insure a future income  
7. Increase thy ability to earn 
5  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
About The Author  
GEORGE SAMUEL CLASON was born in Louisiana, Missouri, on November 7,  1874. He attended the University of Nebraska and served in the United States  Army during the Spanish-American War. Beginning a long career in publishing,  he founded the Clason Map Company of Denver, Colorado, and published the  first road atlas of the United States and Canada. In 1926, he issued the first of  a famous series of pamphlets on thrift and financial success, using parables  set in ancient Babylon to make each of his points. These were distributed in  large quantities by banks and insurance companies and became familiar to  millions, the most famous being "The Richest Man in Babylon," the parable  from which the present volume takes its title. These "Babylonian parables"  have become a modern inspirational classic. 
6  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Foreword  
Our prosperity as a nation depends upon the personal financial prosperity of  each of us as individuals.  
This book deals with the personal successes of each of us. Success means  accomplishments as the result of our own efforts and abilities. Proper  preparation is the key to our success. Our acts can be no wiser than our  thoughts. Our thinking can be no wiser than our understanding.  
This book of cures for lean purses has been termed a guide to financial  understanding. That, indeed, is its purpose: to offer those who are ambitious  for financial success an insight which will aid them to acquire money, to keep  money and to make their surpluses earn more money.  
In the pages which follow, we are taken back to Babylon, the cradle in which  was nurtured the basic principles of finance now recognized and used the  world over.  
To new readers the author is happy to extend the wish that its pages may  contain for them the same inspiration for growing bank accounts, greater  financial successes and the solution of difficult personal financial problems so  enthusiastically reported by readers from coast to coast.  
To the business executives who have distributed these tales in such generous  quantities to friends, relatives, employees and associates, the author takes  this opportunity to express his gratitude. No endorsement could be higher  than that of practical men who appreciate its teachings because they,  themselves, have worked up to important successes by applying the very  principles it advocates.  
Babylon became the wealthiest city of the ancient world because its citizens  were the richest people of their time. They appreciated the value of money.  They practiced sound financial principles in acquiring money, keeping money  and making their money earn more money. They provided for themselves  
what we all desire…incomes for the future.  
G. S. C. 
7  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
An Historical Sketch of Babylon  
In the pages of history there lives no city more glamorous than Babylon. Its  very name conjures visions of wealth and splendor. Its treasures of gold and  jewels were fabulous. One naturally pictures such a wealthy city as located in  a suitable setting of tropical luxury, surrounded by rich natural resources of  forests, and mines. Such was not the case. It was located beside the  Euphrates River, in a flat, arid valley. It had no forests, no mines—not even  stone for building. It was not even located upon a natural trade-route. The  rainfall was insufficient to raise crops.  
Babylon is an outstanding example of man's ability to achieve great  objectives, using whatever means are at his disposal. All of the resources  supporting this large city were man-developed. All of its riches were man made.  
Babylon possessed just two natural resources—a fertile soil and water in the  river. With one of the greatest engineering accomplishments of this or any  other day, Babylonian engineers diverted the waters from the river by means  of dams and immense irrigation canals. Far out across that arid valley went  these canals to pour the life giving waters over the fertile soil. This ranks  among the first engineering feats known to history. Such abundant crops as  were the reward of this irrigation system the world had never seen before.  
Fortunately, during its long existence, Babylon was ruled by successive lines  of kings to whom conquest and plunder were but incidental. While it engaged  in many wars, most of these were local or defensive against ambitious  conquerors from other countries who coveted the fabulous treasures of  Babylon. The outstanding rulers of Babylon live in history because of their  wisdom, enterprise and justice. Babylon produced no strutting monarchs who  sought to conquer the known world that all nations might pay homage to their  egotism.  
As a city, Babylon exists no more. When those energizing human forces that  built and maintained the city for thousands of years were withdrawn, it soon  became a deserted ruin. The site of the city is in Asia about six hundred miles  east of the Suez Canal, just north of the Persian Gulf. The latitude is about  thirty degrees above the Equator, practically the same as that of Yuma, 
8  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Arizona. It possessed a climate similar to that of this American city, hot and  dry.  
Today, this valley of the Euphrates, once a populous irrigated farming  district, is again a wind-swept arid waste. Scant grass and desert shrubs strive  for existence against the windblown sands. Gone are the fertile fields, the  mammoth cities and the long caravans of rich merchandise. Nomadic bands of  Arabs, securing a scant living by tending small herds, are the only inhabitants.  Such it has been since about the beginning of the Christian era.  
Dotting this valley are earthen hills. For centuries, they were considered by  travelers to be nothing else. The attention of archaeologists were finally  attracted to them because of broken pieces of pottery and brick washed  down by the occasional rain storms. Expeditions, financed by European and  American museums, were sent here to excavate and see what could be found.  Picks and shovels soon proved these hills to be ancient cities. City graves,  they might well be called.  
Babylon was one of these. Over it for something like twenty centuries, the  winds had scattered the desert dust. Built originally of brick, all exposed  walls had disintegrated and gone back to earth once more. Such is Babylon,  the wealthy city, today. A heap of dirt, so long abandoned that no living  person even knew its name until it was discovered by carefully removing the  refuse of centuries from the streets and the fallen wreckage of its noble  temples and palaces.  
Many scientists consider the civilization of Babylon and other cities in this  valley to be the oldest of which there is a definite record. Positive dates have  been proved reaching back 8000 years.  
An interesting fact in this connection is the means used to determine these  dates. Uncovered in the ruins of Babylon were descriptions of an eclipse of  the sun. Modern astronomers readily computed the time when such an  eclipse, visible in Babylon, occurred and thus established a known  relationship between their calendar and our own.  
In this way, we have proved that 8000 years ago, the Sumerites, who  inhabited Babylonia, were living in walled cities. One can only conjecture for  how many centuries previous such cities had existed. Their inhabitants were 
9  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
not mere barbarians living within protecting walls. They were an educated  and enlightened people. So far as written history goes, they were the first  engineers, the first astronomers, the first mathematicians, the first financiers  and the first people to have a written language.  
Mention has already been made of the irrigation systems which transformed  the arid valley into an agricultural paradise. The remains of these canals can  still be traced, although they are mostly filled with accumulated sand. Some  of them were of such size that, when empty of water, a dozen horses could  be ridden abreast along their bottoms. In size they compare favorably with  the largest canals in Colorado and Utah.  
In addition to irrigating the valley lands, Babylonian engineers completed  another project of similar magnitude. By means of an elaborate drainage  system they reclaimed an immense area of swamp land at the mouths of the  Euphrates and Tigris Rivers and put this also under cultivation.  
Herodotus, the Greek traveler and historian, visited Babylon while it was in  its prime and has given us the only known description by an outsider. His  writings give a graphic description of the city and some of the unusual  customs of its people. He mentions the remarkable fertility of the soil and  the bountiful harvest of wheat and barley which they produced.  
The glory of Babylon has faded but its wisdom has been preserved for us. For  this we are indebted to their form of records. In that distant day, the use of  paper had not been invented. Instead, they laboriously engraved their writing  upon tablets of moist clay. When completed, these were baked and became  hard tile. In size, they were about six by eight inches, and an inch in  thickness.  
These clay tablets, as they are commonly called, were used much as we use  modern forms of writing. Upon them were engraved legends, poetry, history,  transcriptions of royal decrees, the laws of the land, titles to property,  promissory notes and even letters which were dispatched by messengers to  distant cities. From these clay tablets we are permitted an insight into the  intimate, personal affairs of the people. For example, one tablet, evidently  from the records of a country storekeeper, relates that upon the given date a  certain named customer brought in a cow and exchanged it for seven sacks of  wheat, three being delivered at the time and the other four to await the  customer's pleasure. 
10  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Safely buried in the wrecked cities, archaeologists have recovered entire  libraries of these tablets, hundreds of thousands of them.  
One of the outstanding wonders of Babylon was the immense walls  surrounding the city. The ancients ranked them with the great pyramid of  Egypt as belonging to the "seven wonders of the world." Queen Semiramis is  credited with having erected the first walls during the early history of the  city. Modern excavators have been unable to find any trace of the original  walls. Nor is their exact height known. From mention made by early writers,  it is estimated they were about fifty to sixty feet high, faced on the outer  side with burnt brick and further protected by a deep moat of water.  
The later and more famous walls were started about six hundred years before  the time of Christ by King Nabopolassar. Upon such a gigantic scale did he  plan the rebuilding, he did not live to see the work finished. This was left to  his son, Nebuchadnezzar, whose name is familiar in Biblical history.  
The height and length of these later walls staggers belief. They are reported  upon reliable authority to have been about one hundred and sixty feet high,  the equivalent of the height of a modern fifteen story office building. The  total length is estimated as between nine and eleven miles. So wide was the  top that a six-horse chariot could be driven around them. Of this tremendous  structure, little now remains except portions of the foundations and the  moat. In addition to the ravages of the elements, the Arabs completed the  destruction by quarrying the brick for building purposes elsewhere.  
Against the walls of Babylon marched, in turn, the victorious armies of almost  every conqueror of that age of wars of conquest. A host of kings laid siege to  Babylon, but always in vain. Invading armies of that day were not to be  considered lightly. Historians speak of such units as 10,000 horsemen,  25,000 chariots, 1200 regiments of foot soldiers with 1000 men to the  regiment. Often two or three years of preparation would be required to  assemble war materials and depots of food along the proposed line of march.  The city of Babylon was organized much like a modern city. There were  streets and shops.  
Peddlers offered their wares through residential districts. Priests officiated in  magnificent temples. 
11  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Within the city was an inner enclosure for the royal palaces. The walls about  this were said to have been higher than those about the city.  
The Babylonians were skilled in the arts. These included sculpture, painting,  weaving, gold working and the manufacture of metal weapons and  agricultural implements. Their Jewellers created most artistic jewellery.  Many samples have been recovered from the graves of its wealthy citizens  and are now on exhibition in the leading museums of the world.  
At a very early period when the rest of the world was still hacking at trees  with stone-headed axes, or hunting and fighting with flint-pointed spears and  arrows, the Babylonians were using axes, spears and arrows with metal heads.  The Babylonians were clever financiers and traders. So far as we know, they  were the original inventors of money as a means of exchange, of promissory  notes and written titles to property.  
Babylon was never entered by hostile armies until about 540 years before the  birth of Christ.  
Even then the walls were not captured. The story of the fall of Babylon is  most unusual. Cyrus, one of the great conquerors of that period, intended to  attack the city and hoped to take its impregnable walls.  
Advisors of Nabonidus, the King of Babylon, persuaded him to go forth to  meet Cyrus and give him battle without waiting for the city to be besieged. In  the succeeding defeat to the Babylonian army, it fled away from the city.  Cyrus, thereupon, entered the open gates and took possession without  resistance.  
Thereafter the power and prestige of the city gradually waned until, in the  course of a few hundred years, it was eventually abandoned, deserted, left  for the winds and storms to level once again to that desert earth from which  its grandeur had originally been built. Babylon had fallen, never to rise again,  but to it civilization owes much.  
The eons of time have crumbled to dust the proud walls of its temples, but  the wisdom of Babylon endures. 
12  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Money is the medium by which earthly success is measured.  Money makes possible the enjoyment of the best the earth affords.  
Money is plentiful for those who understand the simple laws which govern its  acquisition.  
Money is governed today by the same laws which controlled it when  prosperous men thronged the streets of Babylon, six thousand years ago.
13  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Man Who Desired Gold  
Bansir, the chariot builder of Babylon, was thoroughly discouraged. From his  seat upon the low wall surrounding his property, he gazed sadly at his simple  home and the open workshop in which stood a partially completed chariot.  
His wife frequently appeared at the open door. Her furtive glances in his  direction reminded him that the meal bag was almost empty and he should be  at work finishing the chariot, hammering and hewing, polishing and painting,  stretching taut the leather over the wheel rims, preparing it for delivery  so he could collect from his wealthy customer.  
Nevertheless, his fat, muscular body sat stolidly upon the wall. His slow mind  was struggling patiently with a problem for which he could find no answer.  
The hot, tropical sun, so typical of this valley of the Euphrates, beat down  upon him mercilessly. Beads of perspiration formed upon his brow and  trickled down unnoticed to lose themselves in tie hairy jungle on his chest.  
Beyond his home towered the high terraced wall surrounding the king's  palace. Nearby, cleaving the blue heavens, was the painted tower of the  Temple of Bel. In the shadow of such grandeur was his simple home and many  others far less neat and well cared for. Babylon was like this—a mixture of  grandeur and squalor, of dazzling wealth and direst poverty, crowded  together without plan or system within the protecting walls of the city.  
Behind him, had he cared to turn and look, the noisy chariots of the rich  jostled and crowded aside the sandaled tradesmen as well as the barefooted  beggars. Even the rich were forced to turn into the gutters to clear the way  for the long lines of slave water carriers, on the "King's Business," each  bearing a heavy goatskin of water to be poured upon the hanging gardens.  
Bansir was too engrossed in his own problem to hear or heed the confused  hubbub of the busy city. It was the unexpected twanging of the strings from a  familiar lyre that aroused him from his reverie. He turned and looked into the  sensitive, smiling face of his best friend—Kobbi, the musician.  
"May the Gods bless thee with great liberality, my good friend," began Kobbi  with an elaborate salute. "Yet, it does appear they have already been so 
14  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
generous thou needest not to labor. I rejoice with thee in thy good fortune.  More, I would even share it with thee. Pray, from thy purse which must be  bulging else thou wouldst be busy in your shop, extract but two humble  shekels and lend them to me until after the noblemen's feast this night. Thou  wilt not miss them ere they are returned."  
"If I did have two shekels," Bansir responded gloomily, "to no one could I lend  them—not even to you, my best of friends; for they would be my fortune—my  entire fortune. No one lends his entire fortune, not even to his best friend."  
"What," exclaimed Kobbi with genuine surprise, "Thou hast not one shekel in  thy purse, yet sit like a statue upon a wall! Why not complete that chariot?  How else canst thou provide for thy noble appetite? Tis not like thee, my  friend. Where is thy endless energy? Doth something distress thee? Have  the Gods brought to thee troubles?"  
"A torment from the Gods it must be," Bansir agreed. "It began with a dream,  a senseless dream, in which I thought I was a man of means. From my belt  hung a handsome purse, heavy with coins. There were shekels which I cast  with careless freedom to the beggars; there were pieces of silver with which I  did buy finery for my wife and whatever I did desire for myself; there were  pieces of gold which made me feel assured of the future and unafraid to  spend the silver. A glorious feeling of contentment was within me! You would  not have known me for thy hardworking friend. Nor wouldst have known my  wife, so free from wrinkles was her face and shining with happiness. She was  again the smiling maiden of our early married days."  
"A pleasant dream, indeed," commented Kobbi, "but why should such pleasant  feelings as it aroused turn thee into a glum statue upon the wall?"  
"Why, indeed! Because when I awoke and remembered how empty was my  purse, a feeling of rebellion swept over me. Let us talk it over together, for,  as the sailors do say, we ride in the same boat, we two. As youngsters, we  went together to the priests to learn wisdom. As young men, we shared each  other's pleasures. As grown men, we have always been close friends. We have  been contented subjects of our kind. We have been satisfied to work long  hours and spend our earnings freely. We have earned much coin in the years  that have passed, yet to know the joys that come from wealth, we must  dream about them. Bah! Are we more than dumb sheep? We live in the  richest city in all the world. The travelers do say none equals it in wealth. 
15  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
About us is much display of wealth, but of it we ourselves have naught. After  half a lifetime of hard labor, thou, my best of friends, hast an empty purse  and sayest to me, "May I borrow such a trifle as two shekels until after the  noblemen's feast this night?" Then, what do I reply? Do I say, "Here is my  purse; its contents will I gladly share?' No, I admit that my purse is as empty  as thine. What is the matter? Why cannot we acquire silver and gold—more  than enough for food and robes?  
"Consider, also, our sons," Bansir continued, "are they not 17following in the  footsteps of their fathers? Need they and their families and their sons and  their sons' families live all their lives in the midst of such treasurers of gold,  and yet, like us, be content to banquet upon sour goat's milk and porridge?"  
"Never, in all the years of our friendship, didst thou talk like this before,  Bansir." Kobbi was puzzled.  
"Never in all those years did I think like this before. From early dawn until  darkness stopped me, I have labored to build the finest chariots any man  could make, soft- heartedly hoping some day the Gods would recognize my  worthy deeds and bestow upon me great prosperity. This they have never  done. At last, I realize this they will never do. Therefore, my heart is sad. I  wish to be a man of means. I wish to own lands and cattle, to have fine robes  and coins in my purse. I am willing to work for these things with all the  strength in my back, with all the skill in my hands, with all the cunning in my  mind, but I wish my labors to be fairly rewarded. What is the matter with us?  
Again I ask you! Why cannot we have our just share of the good things so  plentiful for those who have the gold with which to buy them?"  
"Would I knew an answer!" Kobbi replied. "No better than thou am I satisfied.  
My earnings from my lyre are quickly gone. Often must I plan and scheme that  my family be not hungry. Also, within my breast is a deep longing for a lyre  large enough that it may truly sing the strains of music that do surge through  my mind. With such an instrument could I make music finer than even the  king has heard before."  
"Such a lyre thou shouldst have. No man in all Babylon could make it sing  more sweetly; could make it sing so sweetly, not only the king but the Gods 
16  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
themselves would be delighted. But how mayest thou secure it while we both  of us are as poor as the king's slaves? Listen to the bell! Here they come."  
He pointed to the long column of half naked, sweating water bearers plodding  laboriously up the narrow street from the river. Five abreast they marched,  each bent under a heavy goatskin of water.  
"A fine figure of a man, he who doth lead them." Kobbi indicated the wearer  of the bell who marched in front without a load. "A prominent man in his own  country, 'tis easy to see."  
"There are many good figures in the line," Bansir agreed, "as good men as we.  Tall, blond men from the north, laughing black men from the south, little  brown men from the nearer countries. All marching together from the river to  the gardens, back and forth, day after day, year after year. Naught of  happiness to look forward to. Beds of straw upon which to sleep—hard grain  porridge to eat. Pity the poor brutes, Kobbi!"  
"Pity them I do. Yet, thou dost make me see how little better off are we, free  men though we call ourselves."  
That is truth, Kobbi, unpleasant thought though it be. We do not wish to go  on year after year living slavish lives. Working, working, working! Getting  nowhere."  
"Might we not find out how others acquire gold and do as they do?" Kobbi  inquired.  
“Perhaps there is some secret we might learn if we but sought from those  who knew," replied Bansir thoughtfully.  
“This very day,” suggested Kobbi, "I did pass our old friend, Arkad, riding in  his golden chariot. This I will say, he did not look over my humble head as  many in his station might consider his right. Instead, he did wave his hand  that all onlookers might see him pay greetings and bestow his smile of  friendship upon Kobbi, the musician."  
"He is claimed to be the richest man in all Babylon," Bansir mused. 
17  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"So rich the king is said to seek his golden aid in affairs of the treasury," Kobbi  replied. "So rich," Bansir interrupted, "I fear if I should meet him in the  darkness of the night, I should lay my hands upon his fat wallet."  
"Nonsense," reproved Kobbi, "a man's wealth is not in the purse he carries. A  fat purse quickly empties if there be no golden stream to refill it. Arkad has  an income that constantly keeps his purse full, no matter how liberally he  spends."  
"Income, that is the thing," ejaculated Bansir. "I wish an income that will keep  flowing into my purse whether I sit upon the wall or travel to far lands. Arkad  must know how a man can make an income for himself. Dost suppose it is  something he could make clear to a mind as slow as mine?"  
"Methinks he did teach his knowledge to his son, Nomasir," Kobbi responded.  
 "Did he not go to Nineveh and, so it is told at the inn, become, without aid  from his father, one of the richest men in that city?"  
"Kobbi, thou bringest to me a rare thought." A new light gleamed in Bansir's  eyes. "It costs nothing to ask wise advice from a good friend and Arkad was  always that. Never mind though our purses be as empty as the falcon's nest of  a year ago. Let that not detain us. We are weary of being without gold in the  midst of plenty. We wish to become men of means. Come, let us go to Arkad  and ask how we, also, may acquire incomes for ourselves."  
Thou speakest with true inspiration, Bansir. Thou bringeth to my mind a new  understanding.  
Thou makest me to realize the reason why we have never found any measure  of wealth. We never sought it. Thou hast labored patiently to build the  staunchest chariots in Babylon. To that purpose was devoted your best  endeavors. Therefore, at it thou didst succeed. I strove to become a skillful  lyre player. And, at it I did succeed.  
"In those things toward which we exerted our best endeavors we succeeded.  
The Gods were content to let us continue thus. Now, at last, we see a light,  bright like that from the rising sun. It biddeth us to learn more that we may  prosper more. With a new understanding we shall find honourable ways to  accomplish our desires." 
18  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Let us go to Arkad this very day," Bansir urged, "Also, let us ask other friends  of our boyhood days, who have fared no better than ourselves, to join us that  they, too, may share in his wisdom."  
"Thou wert ever thus thoughtful of thy friends, Bansir. Therefore hast thou  many friends. It shall be as thou sayest. We go this day and take them with  us."  
 
19  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Richest Man In Babylon  
In old Babylon there once lived a certain very rich man named Arkad. Far and  wide he was famed for his great wealth. Also was be famed for his liberality.  He was generous in his charities. He was generous with his family. He was  liberal in his own expenses. But nevertheless each year his wealth increased  more rapidly than he spent it.  
And there were certain friends of younger days who came to him and said:  "You, Arkad, are more fortunate than we. You have become the richest man  in all Babylon while we struggle for existence. You can wear the finest  garments and you can enjoy the rarest foods, while we must be content if we  can clothe our families in raiment that is presentable and feed them as best  we can.  
"Yet, once we were equal. We studied under the same master. We played in  the same games. And in neither the studies nor the games did you outshine  us. And in the years since, you have been no more an honorable citizen than  we.  
"Nor have you worked harder or more faithfully, insofar as we can judge.  Why, then, should a fickle fate single you out to enjoy all the good things of  life and ignore us who are equally deserving?"  
Thereupon Arkad remonstrated with them, saying, "If you have not acquired  more than a bare existence in the years since we were youths, it is because  you either have failed to learn the laws that govern the building of wealth, or  else you do not observe them.  
“Fickle Fate' is a vicious goddess who brings no permanent good to anyone.  On the contrary, she brings ruin to almost every man upon whom she showers  unearned gold. She makes wanton spenders, who soon dissipate all they  receive and are left beset by overwhelming appetites and desires they have  not the ability to gratify. Yet others whom she favors become misers and  hoard their wealth, fearing to spend what they have, knowing they do not  possess the ability to replace it. They further are beset by fear of robbers and  doom themselves to lives of emptiness and secret misery. 
20  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Others there probably are, who can take unearned gold and add to it and  continue to be happy and contented citizens. But so few are they, I know of  them but by hearsay. Think you of the men who have inherited sudden  wealth, and see if these things are not so.  
"His friends admitted that of the men they knew who had inherited wealth  these words were true, and they besought him to explain to them how he had  become possessed of so much prosperity, so he continued: "In my youth I  looked about me and saw all the good things there were to bring happiness and contentment. And I realized that wealth increased the potency  of all these. "Wealth is a power. With wealth many things are possible.  
"One may ornament the home with the richest of furnishings. "One may sail  the distant seas.  
"One may feast on the delicacies of far lands.  
"One may buy the ornaments of the gold worker and the stone polisher.  "One may even build mighty temples for the Gods.  
"One may do all these things and many others in which there is delight for the  senses and gratification for the soul.  
"And, when I realized all this, I decided to myself that I would claim my share  of the good things of life. I would not be one of those who stand afar off,  enviously watching others enjoy. I would not be content to clothe myself in  the cheapest raiment that looked respectable. I would not be satisfied  with the lot of a poor man. On the contrary, I would make myself a guest at  this banquet of good things.  
"Being, as you know, the son of a humble merchant, one of a large family  with no hope of an inheritance, and not being endowed, as you have so  frankly said, with superior powers or wisdom, I decided that if I was to  achieve what I desired, time and study would be required.  
"As for time, all men have it in abundance. You, each of you, have let slip by  sufficient time to have made yourselves wealthy. Yet, you admit; you have  nothing to show except your good families, of which you can be justly proud. 
21  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"As for study, did not our wise teacher teach us that learning was of two  kinds: the one kind being the things we learned and knew, and the other  being the training that taught us how to find out what we did not know?  
"Therefore did I decide to find out how one might accumulate wealth, and  when I had found out, to make this my task and do it well. For, is it not wise  that we should enjoy while we dwell in the brightness of the sunshine, for  sorrows enough shall descend upon us when we depart for the darkness of the  world of spirit?  
"I found employment as a scribe in the hall of records, and long hours each  day I labored upon the clay tablets. Week after week, and month after  month, I labored, yet for my 24earnings I had naught to show. Food and  clothing and penance to the gods, and other things of which I could  remember not what, absorbed all my earnings. But my determination did not  leave me.  
"And one day Algamish, the money lender, came to the house of the city  master and ordered a copy of the Ninth Law, and he said to me, I must have  this in two days, and if the task is done by that time, two coppers will I give  to thee."  
"So I labored hard, but the law was long, and when Algamish returned the  task was unfinished.  
He was angry, and had I been his slave, he would have beaten me. But  knowing the city master would not permit him to injure me, I was unafraid,  so I said to him, 'Algamish, you are a very rich man. Tell me how I may also  become rich, and all night I will carve upon the clay, and when the sun rises  it shall be completed.'  
"He smiled at me and replied, 'You are a forward knave, but we will call it a  bargain.'  
"All that night I carved, though my back pained and the smell of the wick  made my head ache until my eyes could hardly see. But when he returned at  sunup, the tablets were complete.  
“Now,' I said, 'tell me what you promised.' 
22  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
“You have fulfilled your part of our bargain, my son,' he said to me kindly,  'and I am ready to fulfill mine. I will tell you these things you wish to know  because I am becoming an old man, and an old tongue loves to wag. And  when youth comes to age for advice he receives the wisdom of years. But too  often does youth think that age knows only the wisdom of days that are gone,  and therefore profits not. But remember this, the sun that shines today is the  sun that shone when thy father was born, and will still be shining when thy  last grandchild shall pass into the darkness.  
“The thoughts of youth,' he continued, 'are bright lights that shine forth like  the meteors that oft make brilliant the sky, but the wisdom of age is like the  fixed stars that shine so unchanged that the sailor may depend upon them to  steer his course.  
“Mark you well my words, for if you do not you will fail to grasp the truth that  I will tell you, and you will think that your night's work has been in vain.'  
"Then he looked at me shrewdly from under his shaggy brows and said in a  low, forceful tone,  
'I found the road to wealth when I decided that a part of all I earned was  mine to keep. And so will you.'  
"Then he continued to look at me with a glance that I could feel pierce me  but said no more.  
“Is that all?' I asked.  
“That was sufficient to change the heart of a sheep herder into the heart of a  money lender,' he replied.  
“But all I earn is mine to keep, is it not?' I demanded.  
“Far from it,' he replied. 'Do you not pay the garment- maker? Do you not pay  the sandal-maker? Do you not pay for the things you eat? Can you live in  Babylon without spending? What have you to show for your earnings of the  past mouth? What for the past year? Fool! You pay to everyone but yourself.  Dullard, you labor for others. As well be a slave and work for what your  master gives you to eat and wear. If you did keep for yourself one-tenth of all  you earn, how much would you have in  
ten years?' 
23  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"My knowledge of the numbers did not forsake me, and I answered, 'As much  as I earn in one year.'  
“You speak but half the truth,' he retorted. 'Every gold piece you save is a  slave to work for you. Every copper it earns is its child that also can earn for  you. If you would become wealthy, then what you save must earn, and its  children must earn, that all may help to give to you the abundance you crave.  
“You think I cheat you for your long night's work,' he continued, 'but I am  paying you a thousand times over if you have the intelligence to grasp the  truth I offer you.  
“A part of all you earn is yours to keep. It should be not less than a tenth no  matter how little you earn. It can be as much more as you can afford. Pay  yourself first. Do not buy from the clothes-maker and the sandal-maker more  than you can pay out of the rest and still have enough for food and charity  and penance to the gods.  
“Wealth, like a tree, grows from a tiny seed. The first copper you save is the  seed from which your tree of wealth shall grow. The sooner you plant that  seed the sooner shall the tree grow. And the more faithfully you nourish and  water that tree with consistent savings, the sooner may you bask in  contentment beneath its shade.'  
"So saying, he took his tablets and went away.  
"I thought much about what he had said to me, and it seemed reasonable. So I  decided that I would try it. Each time I was paid I took one from each ten  pieces of copper and hid it away. And strange as it may seem, I was no  shorter of funds, than before. I noticed little difference as I managed to get  along without it. But often I was tempted, as my hoard began to grow, to  spend it for some of the good things the merchants displayed, brought by  camels and ships from the land of the Phoenicians. But I wisely refrained.  
"A twelfth month after Algamish had gone he again returned and said to me,  'Son, have you paid to yourself not less than one-tenth of all you have earned  for the past year?'  
"I answered proudly, 'Yes, master, I have.' 'That is good,' he answered  beaming upon me, 'and what have you done with it?” 
24  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"I have given it to Azmur, the brick maker, who told me he was traveling over  the far seas and in Tyre he would buy for me the rare jewels of the  Phoenicians. When he returns we shall sell these at high prices and divide the  earnings.”  
"Every fool must learn,” he growled, 'but why trust the knowledge of a brick  maker about jewels? Would you go to the bread maker to inquire about the  stars? No, by my tunic, you would go to the astrologer, if you had power to  think. Your savings are gone, youth, you have jerked your wealth-tree up by  the roots. But plant another. Try again. And next time if you would have  advice about jewels, go to the jewel merchant. If you would know the truth  about sheep, go to the herdsman. Advice is one thing that is freely given  away, but watch that you take only what is worth having. He who takes  advice about his savings from one who is inexperienced in such matters, shall  pay with his savings for proving the falsity of their opinions.” Saying this, he  went away.  
"And it was as he said. For the Phoenicians are scoundrels and sold to Azmur  worthless bits of glass that looked like gems. But as Algamish had bid me, I  again saved each tenth copper, for I now had formed the habit and it was no  longer difficult.  
"Again, twelve months later, Algamish came to the room of the scribes and  addressed me.  
”What progress have you made since last I saw you?”  
"I have paid myself faithfully,' I replied, 'and my savings I have entrusted to  Agger the shield maker, to buy bronze, and each fourth month he does pay  me the rental.”  
"That is good. And what do you do with the rental?' "I do have a great feast  with honey and fine wine and spiced cake. Also I have bought me a scarlet  tunic. And some day I shall buy me a young ass upon which to ride.” To  which Algamish laughed, “You do eat the children of your savings. Then how  do you expect them to work for you?  
And how can they have children that will also work for you? 
First get thee an army of golden slaves and then many a rich banquet may you  enjoy without regret.” So saying he again went away. 
25  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Nor did I again see him for two years, when he once more returned and his  face was full of deep lines and his eyes drooped, for he was becoming a very  old man. And he said to me, “Arkad, hast thou yet achieved the wealth thou  dreamed of?”  
And I answered, “Not yet all that I desire, but some I have and it earns more,  and its earnings earn more.”  
"And do you still take the advice of brick makers?”  
"About brick making they give good advice,” I retorted.  
"Arkad,” he continued, “you have learned your lessons well. You first learned  to live upon less than you could earn. Next you learned to seek advice from  those who were competent through their own experiences to give it. And,  lastly, you have learned to make gold work for you.”  
"You have taught yourself how to acquire money, how to keep it, and how to  use it. Therefore, you are competent for a responsible position. I am  becoming an old man. My sons think only of spending and give no thought to  earning. My interests are great and I fear too much for me to look after. If  you will go to Nippur and look after my lands there, I shall make you my  partner and you shall share in my estate.”  
"So I went to Nippur and took charge of his holdings, which were large. And  because I was full of ambition and because I had mastered the three laws of  successfully handling wealth, I was enabled to increase greatly the value of  his properties.  
So I prospered much, and when the spirit of Algamish departed for the sphere  of darkness, I did share in his estate as he had arranged under the law." So  spake Arkad, and when he had finished his tale, one of his friends said, "You  were indeed fortunate that Algamish made of you an heir."  
"Fortunate only in that I had the desire to prosper before I first met him. For  four years did I not prove my definiteness of purpose by keeping one-tenth of  all earned? Would you call a fisherman lucky who for years so studied the  habits of the fish that with each changing wind he could cast his nets about  them? Opportunity is a haughty goddess who wastes no time with those who  are unprepared." 
26  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"You had strong will power to keep on after you lost your first year's savings.  You are unusual in that way," spoke up another.  
"Will power!" retorted Arkad. "What nonsense. Do you think will power gives a  man the strength to lift a burden the camel cannot carry, or to draw a load  the oxen cannot budge? Will power is but the unflinching purpose to carry a  task you set for yourself to fulfillment. If I set for myself a task, be it ever so  trifling, I shall see it through. How else shall I have confidence in myself to do  important things? Should I say to myself, 'For a hundred days as I walk across  the bridge into the city, I will pick from the road a pebble and cast it into the  stream,' I would do it.  
If on the seventh day I passed by without remembering, I would not say to  myself, Tomorrow I will cast two pebbles which will do as well.' Instead, I  would retrace my steps and cast the pebble. Nor on the twentieth day would I  say to myself, 'Arkad, this is useless. What does it avail you to cast a pebble  every day? Throw in a handful and be done with it.' No, I would not say that  nor do it. When I set a task for myself, I complete it.  
Therefore, I am careful not to start difficult and impractical tasks, because I  love leisure."  
And then another friend spoke up and said, "If what you tell is true, and it  does seem as you have said, reasonable, then being so simple, if all men did  it, there would not be enough wealth to go around."  
Wealth grows wherever men exert energy," Arkad replied. "If a rich man  builds him a new palace, is the gold he pays out gone? No, the brickmaker has  part of it and the laborer has part of it, and the artist has part of it. And  everyone who labors upon the house has part of it Yet when the palace is  completed, is it not worth all it cost? And is the ground upon which it stands  not worth more because it is there? And is the ground that adjoins it not  worth more because it is there? Wealth grows in magic ways. No man can  prophesy the limit of it. Have not the Phoenicians built great cities on barren  coasts with the wealth that comes from their ships of commerce on the seas?"  
"What then do you advise us to do that we also may become rich?" asked still  another of his friends. "The years have passed and we are no longer young  men and we have nothing put by." 
27  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"I advise that you take the wisdom of Algamish and say to yourselves, 'A part  of all I earn is mine to keep.' Say it in the morning when you first arise. Say it  at noon. Say it at night. Say it each hour of every day. Say it to yourself until  the words stand out like letters of fire across the sky.  
"Impress yourself with the idea. Fill yourself with the thought. Then take  whatever portion seems wise. Let it be not less than one-tenth and lay it by.  Arrange your other expenditures to do this if necessary. But lay by that  portion first. Soon you will realize what a rich feeling it is to own a treasure  upon which you alone have claim. As it grows it will stimulate you. A new joy  of life will thrill you.  
Greater efforts will come to you to earn more. For of your increased earnings,  will not the same percentage be also yours to keep?  
"Then learn to make your treasure work for you. Make it your slave. Make its  children and its children's children work for you.  
"Insure an income for thy future. Look thou at the aged and forget not that in  the days to come thou also will be numbered among them. Therefore invest  thy treasure with greatest caution that it be not lost. Usurious rates of return  are deceitful sirens that sing but to lure the unwary upon the rocks of loss  and remorse.  
"Provide also that thy family may not want should the Gods call thee to their  realms. For such protection it is always possible to make provision with small  payments at regular intervals. Therefore the provident man delays not in  expectation of a large sum becoming available for such a wise purpose.  
"Counsel with wise men. Seek the advice of men whose daily work is handling  money. Let them save you from such an error as I myself made in entrusting  my money to the judgment of Azmur, the brickmaker. A small return and a  safe one is far more desirable than risk.  
"Enjoy life while you are here. Do not overstrain or try to save too much. If  one-tenth of all you earn is as much as you can comfortably keep, be content  to keep this portion. Live otherwise according to your income and let not  yourself get niggardly and afraid to spend. Life is good and life is rich with  things worthwhile and things to enjoy." 
28  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
  
His friends thanked him and went away. Some were silent because they had  no imagination and could not understand. Some were sarcastic because they  thought that one so rich should divide with old friends not so fortunate. But  
some had in their eyes a new light. They realized that Algamish had come  back each time to the room of the scribes because he was watching a man  work his way out of darkness into light. When that man had found the light, a  place awaited him. No one could fill that place until he had for himself  worked out his own understanding, until he was ready for opportunity.  
These latter were the ones, who, in the following years, frequently revisited  Arkad, who received them gladly. He counseled with them and gave them  freely of his wisdom as men of broad experience are always glad to do. And  he assisted them in so investing their savings that it would bring in a good  interest with safety and would neither be lost nor entangled in investments  that paid no dividends.  
The turning point in these men's lives came upon that day when they realized  the truth that had come from Algamish to Arkad and from Arkad to them.  
A PART OF ALL YOU EARN IS YOURS TO KEEP. 
29  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Seven Cures For a Lean Purse  
The glory of Babylon endures. Down through the ages its reputation comes to  us as the richest of cities, its treasures as fabulous.  
Yet it was not always so. The riches of Babylon were the results of the  wisdom of its people.  
They first had to learn how to become wealthy.  
When the Good King, Sargon, returned to Babylon after defeating his  enemies, the Elamites, he was confronted with a serious situation. The Royal  Chancellor explained it to the King thus:  
"After many years of great prosperity brought to our people because your  majesty built the great irrigation canals and the mighty temples of the Gods,  now that these works are completed the people seem unable to support  themselves.  
"The laborers are without employment. The merchants have few customers.  The farmers are unable to sell their produce. The people have not enough  gold to buy food."  
"But where has all the gold gone that we spent for these great  improvements?" demanded the King.  
"It has found its way, I fear," responded the Chancellor, "into the possession  of a few very rich men of our city. It filtered through the fingers of most our  people as quickly as the goat's milk goes through the strainer. Now that the  
stream of gold has ceased to flow, most of our people have nothing to for  their earnings."  
The King was thoughtful for some time. Then he asked, "Why should so few  men be able to acquire all the gold?"  
"Because they know how," replied the Chancellor. "One may not condemn a  man for succeeding because he knows how. Neither may one with justice take  away from a man what he has fairly earned, to give to men of less ability." 
30  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"But why," demanded the King, "should not all the people learn how to  accumulate gold and therefore become themselves rich and prosperous?"  
Quite possible, your excellency. But who can teach them? Certainly not the  priests, because they know naught of money making."  
"Who knows best in all our city how to become wealthy, Chancellor?" asked  the King.  
"Thy question answers itself, your majesty. Who has amassed the greatest  wealth, in Babylon?"  
"Well said, my able Chancellor. It is Arkad. He is richest man in Babylon. Bring  him before me on the morrow."  
Upon the following day, as the King had decreed, Arkad appeared before him,  straight and sprightly despite his three score years and ten.  
"Arkad," spoke the King, "is it true thou art the richest man in Babylon?"  
"So it is reported, your majesty, and no man disputes it. "How becamest thou  so wealthy?"  
"By taking advantage of opportunities available to all citizens of our good  city."  
"Thou hadst nothing to start with?"  
"Only a great desire for wealth. Besides this, nothing."  
"Arkad," continued the King, "our city is in a very unhappy state because a  few men know how to acquire wealth and therefore monopolize it, while the  mass of our citizens lack the knowledge of how to keep any part of the gold  they receive."  
It is my desire that Babylon be the wealthiest city in the world. Therefore, it  must be a city of many wealthy men. Therefore, we must teach all the people  how to acquire riches. Tell me, Arkad, is there any secret to acquiring  wealth? Can it be taught?"  
"It is practical, your majesty. That which one man knows can be taught to  others." 
31  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The king's eyes glowed. "Arkad, thou speaketh the words I wish to hear. Wilt  thou lend thyself to this great cause? Wilt thou teach thy knowledge to a  school for teachers, each of whom shall teach others until there are enough  trained to teach these truths to every worthy subject in my domain?"  
Arkad bowed and said, "I am thy humble servant to command. Whatever  knowledge I possess will I gladly give for the betterment of my fellowmen and  the glory of my King. Let your good chancellor arrange for me a class of one  hundred men and I will teach to them those seven cures which did fatten my  purse, than which there was none leaner in all Babylon."  
A fortnight later, in compliance with the King's command, the chosen hundred  assembled in the great hall of the Temple of Learning, seated upon colorful  rings in a semicircle. Arkad sat beside a small taboret upon which smoked a  sacred lamp sending forth a strange and pleasing odor.  
"Behold the richest man in Babylon," whispered a student, nudging his  neighbor as Arkad arose. "He is but a man even as the rest of us."  
"As a dutiful subject of our great King," Arkad began, "I stand before you in his  service.  
Because once I was a poor youth who did greatly desire gold, and because I  found knowledge that enabled me to acquire it, he asks that I impart unto  you my knowledge.  
"I started my fortune in the humblest way. I had no advantage not enjoyed as  fully by you and every citizen in Babylon."  
The first storehouse of my treasure was a well-purse. I loathed its useless  emptiness. I desired it be round and full, clinking with the sound of gold.  Therefore, I sought every remedy for a lean purse. I found seven.  
"To you, who are assembled before me, shall I explain the seven cures for a  lean purse which I do recommend to all men who desire much gold. Each day  for seven days will I explain to you one of the seven remedies.  
"Listen attentively to the knowledge that I will impart. Debate it with me.  Discuss it among yourselves. Learn these lessons thoroughly, that ye may also  plant in your own purse the seed of wealth. First must each of you start 
32  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
wisely to build a fortune of his own. Then wilt thou be competent, and only  then, to teach these truths to others.  
"I shall teach to you in simple ways how to fatten your purses. This is the first  step leading to the temple of wealth, and no man may climb who cannot  plant his feet firmly upon the first step.  
"We shall now consider the first cure."  
 
33  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The First Cure  
Start thy purse to fattening.  
Arkad addressed a thoughtful man in the second row. "My good friend, at  what craft workest thou?"  
"I," replied the man, "am a scribe and carve records upon the clay tablets."  
"Even at such labor did I myself earn my first coppers. Therefore, thou hast  the same opportunity to build a fortune."  
He spoke to a florid-faced man, farther back. "Pray tell also what dost thou to  earn thy bread?"  
"I," responded this man, "am a meat butcher. I do buy the goats the farmers  raise and kill them and sell the meat to the housewives and the hides to the  sandal makers."  
"Because thou dost also labor and earn, thou hast every advantage to succeed  that I did possess."  
In this way did Arkad proceed to find out how each man labored to earn his  living. When he had done questioning them, he said:  
"Now, my students, ye can see that there are many trades and labors at which  men may earn coins. Each of the ways of earning is a stream of gold from  which the worker doth divert by his labors a portion to his own purse.  Therefore into the purse of each of you flows a stream of coins large or small  according to his ability. Is it not so?"  
Thereupon they agreed that it was so. "Then," continued Arkad, "if each of  you desireth to build for himself a fortune, is it not wise to start by utilizing  that source of wealth which he already has established?"  
To this they agreed.  
Then Arkad turned to a humble man who had declared himself an egg  merchant. "If thou select one of thy baskets and put into it each morning ten 
34  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
eggs and take out from it each evening nine eggs, what will eventually  happen?"  
"It will become in time overflowing."  
"Why?"  
"Because each day I put in one more egg than I take out."  
Arkad turned to the class with a smile. "Does any man here have a lean  purse?"  
First they looked amused. Then they laughed. Lastly they waved their purses  in jest.  
"All right," he continued, "Now I shall tell thee the first remedy I learned to  cure a lean purse.  
Do exactly as I have suggested to the egg merchant. For every ten coins thou  placest within thy purse take out for use but nine. Thy purse will start to  fatten at once and its increasing weight will feel good in thy hand and bring  satisfaction to thy soul.  
"Deride not what I say because of its simplicity. Truth is always simple. I told  thee I would tell how built my fortune. This was my beginning. I, too, carried  a lean purse and cursed it because there was naught within to satisfy my  desires. But when I began to take out from my purse but nine parts of ten I  put in, it began to fatten. So will thine.  
"Now I will tell a strange truth, the reason for which I know not. When I  ceased to pay out more than nine-tenths of my earnings, I managed to get  along just as well. I was not shorter than before. Also, ere long, did coins  come to me more easily than before. Surely it is a law of the Gods that unto  him who keepeth and spendeth not a certain part of all his earnings, shall  gold come more easily.  
Likewise, him whose purse is empty does gold avoid.  
"Which desirest thou the most? Is it the gratification of thy desires of each  day, a jewel, a bit of finery, better raiment, more food; things quickly gone  and forgotten? Or is it substantial belongings, gold, lands, herds, 
35  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
merchandise, income-bringing investments? The coins thou takest from thy  purse bring the first. The coins thou leavest within it will bring the latter.  
"This, my students, was the first cure I did discover for my lean purse: 'For  each ten coins I put in, to spend but nine.' Debate this amongst yourselves. If  any man proves it untrue, tell me upon the morrow when we shall meet  again." 
36  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Second Cure  
Control thy expenditures.  
"Some of your members, my students, have asked me this: How can a man  keep one-tenth of all he earns in his purse when all the coins he earns are not  enough for his necessary expenses?" So did Arkad address his students upon  the second day.  
"Yesterday how many of thee carried lean purses?"  
"All of us," answered the class.  
"Yet, thou do not all earn the same. Some earn much more than others. Some  have much larger families to support. Yet, all purses were equally lean. Now I  will tell thee an unusual truth about men and sons of men. It is this; That  what each of us calls our 'necessary expenses' will always grow to equal our  incomes unless we protest to the contrary.  
"Confuse not the necessary expenses with thy desires. Each of you, together  with your good families, have more desires than your earnings can gratify.  Therefore are thy earnings spent to gratify these desires insofar as they will  go. Still thou retainest many ungratified desires.  
"All men are burdened with more desires than they can gratify. Because of my  wealth thinkest thou I may gratify every desire? 'Tis a false idea. There are  limits to my time. There are limits to my strength. There are limits to the  distance I may travel. There are limits to what I may eat. There are limits to  the zest with which I may enjoy.  
"I say to you that just as weeds grow in a field wherever the farmer leaves  space for their roots, even so freely do desires grow in men whenever there is  a possibility of their being gratified. Thy desires are a multitude and those  that thou mayest gratify are but few.  
"Study thoughtfully thy accustomed habits of living. Herein may be most often  found certain accepted expenses that may wisely be reduced or eliminated.  Let thy motto be one hundred percent of appreciated value demanded for  each coin spent. 
37  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Therefore, engrave upon the clay each thing for which thou desireth to  spend. Select those that are necessary and others that are possible through  the expenditure of nine- tenths of thy income. Cross out the rest and consider  them but a part of that great multitude of desires that must go unsatisfied  and regret them not.  
"Budget then thy necessary expenses. Touch not the one- tenth that is  fattening thy purse. Let this be thy great desire that is being fulfilled. Keep  working with thy budget, keep adjusting it to help thee. Make it thy first  assistant in defending thy fattening purse."  
Hereupon one of the students, wearing a robe of red and gold, arose and said,  "I am a free man.  
I believe that it is my right to enjoy the good things of life. Therefore do I  rebel against the slavery of a budget which determines just how much I may  spend and for what. I feel it would take much pleasure from my life and make  me little more than a pack-ass to carry a burden."  
To him Arkad replied, "Who, my friend, would determine thy budget?"  "I would make it for myself," responded the protesting one.  
"In that case were a pack-ass to budget his burden would he include therein  jewels and rugs and heavy bars of gold? Not so. He would include hay and  grain and a bag of water for the desert trail.  
"The purpose of a budget is to help thy purse to fatten. It is to assist thee to  have thy necessities and, insofar as attainable, thy other desires. It is to  enable thee to realize thy most cherished desires by defending them from thy  casual wishes. Like a bright light in a dark cave thy budget shows up the leaks  from thy purse and enables thee to stop them and control thy expenditures  for definite and gratifying purposes.  
"This, then, is the second cure for a lean purse. Budget thy expenses that  thou mayest have coins to pay for thy necessities, to pay for thy enjoyments  and to gratify thy worthwhile desires without spending more than nine tenths of thy earnings." 
38  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Third Cure  
Make thy gold multiply.  
"Behold thy lean purse is fattening. Thou hast disciplined thyself to leave  therein one-tenth of all thou earneth. Thou hast controlled thy expenditures  to protect thy growing treasure. Next, we will consider means to put thy  treasure to labor and to increase. Gold in a purse is gratifying to own and  satisfieth a miserly soul but earns nothing. The gold we may retain from our  earnings is but the start.  
The earnings it will make shall build our fortunes." So spoke Arkad upon the  third day to his class.  
"How therefore may we put our gold to work? My first investment was  unfortunate, for I lost all. Its tale I will relate later. My first profitable  investment was a loan I made to a man named Aggar, a shield maker. Once  each year did he buy large shipments of bronze brought from across the sea  to use in his trade. Lacking sufficient capital to pay the merchants, he would  borrow from those who had extra coins. He was an honorable man. His  borrowing he would repay, together with a liberal rental, as he sold his  shields.  
"Each time I loaned to him I loaned back also the rental he had paid to me.  Therefore not only did my capital increase, but its earnings likewise  increased. Most gratifying was it to have these sums return to my purse.  
"I tell you, my students, a man's wealth is not in the coins he carries in his  purse; it is the income he buildeth, the golden stream that continually  floweth into his purse and keepeth it always bulging. That is what every man  desireth. That is what thou, each one of thee desireth; an income that  continueth to come whether thou work or travel.  
"Great income I have acquired. So great that I am called a very rich man. My  loans to Aggar were my first training in profitable investment. Gaining  wisdom from this experience, I extended my loans and investments as my  capital increased. From a few sources at first, from many sources later,  flowed into my purse a golden stream of wealth available for such wise uses  as I should decide. 
39  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Behold, from my humble earnings I had begotten a hoard of golden slaves,  each laboring and earning more gold. As they labored for me, so their  children also labored and their children's children until great was the income  from their combined efforts.  
"Gold increaseth rapidly when making reasonable earnings as thou wilt see  from the following:  
A farmer, when his first son was born, took ten pieces of silver to a money  lender and asked him to keep it on rental for his son until he became twenty  years of age. This the money lender did, and agreed the rental should be one fourth of its value each four years. The farmer asked, because this sum he  had set aside as belonging to his son, that the rental be add to the principal.  
"When the boy had reached the age of twenty years, the farmer again went to  the money lender to inquire about the silver. The money lender explained  that because this sum had been increased by compound interest, the original  ten pieces of silver had now grown to thirty and one-half pieces.  
"The farmer was well pleased and because the son did not need the coins, he  left them with the money lender. When the son became fifty years of age,  the father meantime having passed to the other world, the money lender paid  the son in settlement one hundred and sixty-seven pieces of silver.  
"Thus in fifty years had the investment multiplied itself at rental almost  seventeen times.  
"This, then, is the third cure for a lean purse: to put each coin to laboring  that it may reproduce its kind even as the flocks of the field and help bring to  thee income, a stream of wealth that shall flow constantly into thy purse." 
40  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Fourth Cure  
Guard thy treasures from loss.  
"Misfortune loves a shining mark. Gold in a man's purse must be guarded with  firmness, else it be lost. Thus it is wise that we must first secure small  amounts and learn to protect them before the Gods entrust us with larger."  So spoke Arkad upon the fourth day to his class.  
"Every owner of gold is tempted by opportunities whereby it would seem that  he could make large sums by its investment in most plausible projects. Often  friends and relatives are eagerly entering such investment and urge him to  follow.  
"The first sound principle of investment is security for thy principal. Is it wise  to be intrigued by larger earnings when thy principal may be lost? I say not.  The penalty of risk is probable loss. Study carefully, before parting with thy  treasure, each assurance that it may be safely reclaimed. Be not misled by  thine own romantic desires to make wealth rapidly.  
"Before thou loan it to any man assure thyself of his ability to repay and his  reputation for doing so, that thou mayest not unwittingly be making him a  present of thy hard-earned treasure.  
"Before thou entrust it as an investment in any field acquaint thyself with the  dangers which may beset it.  
"My own first investment was a tragedy to me at the time. The guarded  savings of a year I did entrust to a brick maker, named Azmur, who was  traveling over the far seas and in Tyre agreed to buy for me the rare jewels  of the Phoenicians. These we would sell upon his return and divide the  profits.  
The Phoenicians were scoundrels and sold him bits of glass. My treasure was  lost. Today, my training would show to me at once the folly of entrusting a  brick maker to buy jewels.  
"Therefore, do I advise thee from the wisdom of my experiences: be not too  confident of thine own wisdom in entrusting thy treasures to the possible 
41  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
pitfalls of investments. Better by far to consult the wisdom of those  experienced in handling money for profit. Such advice is freely given for the  asking and may readily possess a value equal in gold to the sum thou  considerest investing. In truth, such is its actual value if it save thee from  loss.  
"This, then, is the fourth cure for a lean purse, and of great importance if it  prevent thy purse from being emptied once it has become well filled. Guard  thy treasure from loss by investing only where thy principal is safe, where it  may be reclaimed if desirable, and where thou will not fail to collect a fair  rental. Consult with wise men. Secure the advice of those experienced in the  profitable handling of gold. Let their wisdom protect thy treasure from  unsafe investments." 
42  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Fifth Cure  
Make of thy dwelling a profitable investment.  
"If a man setteth aside nine parts of his earnings upon which to live and enjoy  life, and if any part of this nine parts he can turn into a profitable investment  without detriment to his wellbeing, then so much faster will his treasures  grow." So spake Arkad to his class at their fifth lesson.  
"All too many of our men of Babylon do raise their families in unseemly  quarters. They do pay to exacting landlords liberal rentals for rooms where  their wives have not a spot to raise the blooms that gladden a woman's heart  and their children have no place to play their games except in the unclean  alleys.  
"No man's family can fully enjoy life unless they do have a plot of ground  wherein children can play in the clean earth and where the wife may raise  not only blossoms but good rich herbs to feed her family.  
"To a man's heart it brings gladness to eat the figs from his own trees and the  grapes of his own vines. To own his own domicile and to have it a place he is  proud to care for, putteth confidence in his heart and greater effort behind  all his endeavors. Therefore, do I recommend that every man own the roof  that sheltereth him and his.  
"Nor is it beyond the ability of any well intentioned man to own his home.  Hath not our great king so widely extended the walls of Babylon that within  them much land is now 48unused and may be purchased at sums most  reasonable?  
"Also I say to you, my students, that the money lenders gladly consider the  desires of men who seek homes and land for their families. Readily may thou  borrow to pay the brick maker and the builder for such commendable  purposes, if thou can show a reasonable portion of the necessary sum which  thou thyself hath provided for the purpose.  
"Then when the house be built, thou canst pay the money lender with the  same regularity as thou didst pay the landlord. Because each payment will 
43  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
reduce thy indebtedness to the money lender, a few years will satisfy his  loan.  
"Then will thy heart be glad because thou wilt own in thy own right a valuable  property and thy only cost will be the king's taxes.  
"Also wilt thy good wife go more often to the river to wash thy robes, that  each time returning she may bring a goatskin of water to pour upon the  growing things.  
"Thus come many blessings to the man who owneth his own house. And  greatly will it reduce his cost of living, making available more of his earnings  for pleasures and the gratification of his desires. This, then, is the fifth cure  for a lean purse: Own thy own home" 
 
44  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Sixth Cure  
Insure a future income.  
"The life of every man proceedeth from his childhood to his old age. This is  the path of life and no man may deviate from it unless the Gods call him  prematurely to the world beyond. Therefore do I say that it behooves a man  to make preparation for a suitable income in the days to come, when he is no  longer young, and to make preparations for his family should he be no longer  with them to comfort and support them. This lesson shall instruct thee in  providing a full purse when time has made thee less able to learn." So Arkad  addressed his class upon the sixth day.  
"The man who, because of his understanding of the laws of wealth, acquireth  a growing surplus, should give thought to those future days. He should plan  certain investments or provision that may endure safely for many years, yet  will be available when the time arrives which he has so wisely anticipated.  
"There are diverse ways by which a man may provide with safety for his  future. He may provide a hiding place and there bury a secret treasure. Yet,  no matter with what skill it be hidden, it may nevertheless become the loot  of thieves. For this reason I recommend not this plan.  
"A man may buy houses or lands for this purpose. If wisely chosen as to their  usefulness and value in the future, they are permanent in their value and  their earnings or their sale will provide well  
for his purpose.  
"A man may loan a small sum to the money lender and increase it at regular  periods. The rental which the money lender adds to this will largely add to its  increase. I do know a sandal maker, named Ansan, who explained to me not  long ago that each week for eight years he had deposited with his money  lender two pieces of silver. The money lender had but recently given him an  accounting over which he greatly rejoiced. The total of his small deposits  with their rental at the customary rate of one-fourth their value for each four  years, had now become a thousand and forty pieces of silver.  
"I did gladly encourage him further by demonstrating to him with my  knowledge of the numbers that in twelve years more, if he would keep his 
45  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
regular deposits of but two pieces of silver each week, the money lender  would then owe him four thousand pieces of silver, a worthy competence for  the rest of his life.  
"Surely, when such a small payment made with regularity doth produce such  profitable results, no man can afford not to insure a treasure for his old age  and the protection of his family, no matter how prosperous his business and  his investments may be.  
"I would that I might say more about this. In my mind rests a belief that some  day wise-thinking men will devise a plan to insure against death whereby  many men pay in but a trifling sum regularly, the aggregate making a  handsome sum for the family of each member who passeth to the beyond.  This do I see as something desirable and which I could highly recommend.  
But today it is not possible because it must reach beyond the life of any man  or any partnership to operate. It must be as stable as the King's throne. Some  day do I feel that such a plan shall come to pass and be a great blessing to  many men, because even the first small payment will make available a snug  fortune for the family of a member should he pass on.  
"But because we live in our own day and not in the days which are to come,  must we take advantage of those means and ways of accomplishing our  purposes. Therefore do I recommend to all men, that they, by wise and well  thought out methods, do provide against a lean purse in their mature years.  For a lean purse to a man no longer able to earn or to a family without its  head is a sore tragedy.  
"This, then, is the sixth cure for a lean purse. Provide in advance for the  needs of thy growing age and the protection of thy family."  
 
46  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Seventh Cure  
Increase thy ability to earn.  
"This day do I speak to thee, my students, of one of the most vital remedies  for a lean purse.  
Yet, I will talk not of gold but of yourselves, of the men beneath the robes of  many colors who do sit before me. I will talk to you of those things within the  minds and lives of men which do work for or against their success." So did  Arkad address his class upon the seventh day.  
"Not long ago came to me a young man seeking to borrow. When I questioned  him the cause of his necessity, he complained that his earnings were  insufficient to pay his expenses. Thereupon I explained to him, this being the  case, he was a poor customer for the money lender, as he possessed no  surplus earning capacity to repay the loan.  
“What you need, young man,' I told him, 'is to earn more coins. What dost  thou to increase thy capacity to earn?'  
“All that I can do' he replied. 'Six times within two moons have I approached  my master to request my pay be increased, but without success. No man can  go oftener than that.”  
"We may smile at his simplicity, yet he did possess one of the vital  requirements to increase his earnings. Within him was a strong desire to earn  more, a proper and commendable desire.  
"Preceding accomplishment must be desire. Thy desires must be strong and  definite. General desires are but weak longings. For a man to wish to be rich  is of little purpose. For a man to desire five pieces of gold is a tangible desire  which he can press to fulfillment. After he has backed his desire for five  pieces of gold with strength of purpose to secure it, next he can find similar  ways to obtain ten pieces and then twenty pieces and later a thousand pieces  and, behold, he has become wealthy. In learning to secure his one definite  small desire, he hath trained himself to secure a larger one. This is the  process by which wealth is accumulated: first in small sums, then in larger  ones as a man learns and becomes more capable. 
47  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Desires must be simple and definite. They defeat their own purpose should  they be too many, too confusing, or beyond a man's training to accomplish."  
As a man perfecteth himself in his calling even so doth his ability to earn  increase. In those days when I was a humble scribe carving upon the clay for a  few coppers each day, I observed that other workers did more than I and  were paid more. Therefore, did I determine that I would be exceeded by  none. Nor did it take long for me to discover the reason for their greater  success. More interest in my work, more concentration upon my task, more  persistence in my effort, and, behold, few men could carve more tablets in a  day than I. With reasonable promptness my increased skill was rewarded, nor  was it necessary for me to go six times to my master to request recognition.  
"The more of wisdom we know, the more we may earn. That man who seeks  to learn more of his craft shall be richly rewarded. If he is an artisan, he may  seek to learn the methods and the tools of those most skillful in the same  line. If he laboreth at the law or at healing, he may consult and exchange  knowledge with others of his calling. If he be a merchant, he may continually  seek better goods that can be purchased at lower prices.  
"Always do the affairs of man change and improve because keen-minded men  seek greater skill that they may better serve those upon whose patronage  they depend. Therefore, I urge all men to be in the front rank of progress and  not to stand still, lest they be left behind. "Many things come to make a man's  life rich with gainful experiences. Such things as the following, a man must do  if he respect himself:  
"He must pay his debts with all the promptness within his power, not  purchasing that for which he is unable to pay.  
"He must take care of his family that they may think and speak well of him.  "He must make a will of record that, in case the Gods call him, proper and  honorable division of his property be accomplished.  
"He must have compassion upon those who are injured and smitten by  misfortune and aid them within reasonable limits. He must do deeds of  thoughtfulness to those dear to him.  
"Thus the seventh and last remedy for a lean purse is to cultivate thy own  powers, to study and become wiser, to become more skillful, to so act as to 
48  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
respect thyself. Thereby shalt thou acquire confidence in thy self to achieve thy carefully considered desires.  
"These then are the seven cures for a lean purse, which, out of the  experience of a long and successful life, I do urge for all men who desire  wealth. "There is more gold in Babylon, my students, than thou dreamest of.  There is abundance for all.  
"Go thou forth and practice these truths that thou mayest prosper and grow  wealthy, as is thy right.  
"Go thou forth and teach these truths that every honorable subject of his  majesty may also share liberally in the ample wealth of our beloved city." 
49  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
Meet the Goddess of Good Luck  
"If a man be lucky, there is no foretelling the possible extent of his good  fortune. Pitch him into the Euphrates and like as not he will swim out with  a pearl in his hand."  
—Babylonian Proverb.  
The desire to be lucky is universal. It was just as strong in the breasts of men  four thousand years ago in ancient Babylon as it is in the hearts of men today.  We all hope to be favored by the whimsical Goddess of Good Luck.  
Is there some way we can meet her and attract, not only her favorable  attention, but her generous favors? Is there a way to attract good luck?  That is just what the men of ancient Babylon wished to know. It is exactly  what they decided to find out. They were shrewd men and keen thinkers.  That explains why their city became the richest and most powerful city of  their time.  
In that distant past, they had no schools or colleges. Nevertheless they had a  center of learning and a very practical one it was. Among the towered  buildings in Babylon was one that ranked in importance with the Palace of the  King, the Hanging Gardens and the temples of the Gods. You will find scant  mention of it in the history books, more likely no mention at all, yet it  exerted a powerful influence upon the thought of that time.  
This building was the Temple of Learning where the wisdom of the past was  expounded by voluntary teachers and where subjects of popular interest were  discussed in open forums. Within its walls all men met as equals. The  humblest of slaves could dispute with impunity the opinions of a prince of the  royal house.  
Among the many who frequented the Temple of Learning, was a wise rich  man named Arkad, called the richest man in Babylon. He had his own special  hall where almost any evening a large group of men, some old, some very  young, but mostly middle-aged, gathered to discuss and argue interesting  subjects. Suppose we listen in to see whether they knew how to attract good  luck. 
50  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The sun had just set like a great red ball of fire shining through the haze of  desert dust when Arkad strolled to his accustomed platform. Already full four  score men were awaiting his arrival, reclining on their small rugs spread upon  the floor. More were still arriving.  
"What shall we discuss this night?" Arkad inquired.  
After a brief hesitation, a tall cloth weaver addressed him, arising as was the  custom. "I have a subject I would like to hear discussed yet hesitate to offer  lest it seem ridiculous to you, Arkad, and my good friends here."  
Upon being urged to offer it, both by Arkad and by calls from the others, he  continued: "This day I have been lucky, for I have found a purse in which  there are pieces of gold. To continue to be lucky is my great desire. Feeling  that all men share with me this desire, I do suggest we debate how to attract  good luck that we may discover ways it can be enticed to one."  
"A most interesting subject has been offered, Arkad commented, "one most  worthy of our discussion. To some men, good luck bespeaks but a chance  happening that, like an accident, may befall one without purpose or reason.  Others do believe that the instigator of all good fortune is our most bounteous  goddess, Ashtar, ever anxious to reward with generous gifts those who please  her. Speak up, my friends, what say you, shall we seek to find if there be  means by which good luck may be enticed to visit each and all of us?"  
"Yea! Yea! And much of it!" responded the growing group of eager listeners.  
Thereupon Arkad continued, "To start our discussion, let us first hear from  those among us who have enjoyed experiences similar to that of the cloth  weaver in finding or receiving, without effort upon their part, valuable  treasures or jewels."  
There was a pause in which all looked about expecting someone to reply but  no one did.  
"What, no one?" Arkad said, "then rare indeed must be this kind of good luck.  Who now will offer a suggestion as to where we shall continue our search?"  That I will do," spoke a well-robed young man, arising. "When a man speaketh  of luck is it not natural that his thoughts turn to the gaining tables? Is it not  there we find many men courting the favour of the goddess in hope she will  bless them with rich winnings?" 
51  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
As he resumed his seat a voice called, "Do not stop! Continue thy story! Tell  us, didst thou find favor with the goddess at the gaming tables? Did she turn  the cubes with red side up so thou filled thy purse at the dealer's expense or  
did she permit the blue sides to come up so the dealer raked in thy hard earned pieces of silver?"  
The young man joined the good-natured laughter, then replied, "I am not  averse to admitting she seemed not to know I was even there. But how about  the rest of you?  
Have you found her waiting about such places to roll the cubes, in your favor?  We are eager to hear as well as to learn."  
"A wise start," broke in Arkad. "We meet here to consider all sides of each  question. To ignore the gaming table would be to overlook an instinct  common to most men, the love of taking a chance with a small amount of  silver in the hope of winning much gold."  
"That doth remind me of the races but yesterday," called out another  listener. "If the goddess frequents the gaming tables, certainly she dost not  overlook the races where the gilded chariots and the foaming horses offer far  more excitement. Tell us honestly, Arkad, didst she whisper to you to place  your bet upon those grey horses from Nineveh yesterday? I was standing just  behind thee and could scarce believe my ears when I heard thee place thy bet  upon the greys. Thou knowest as well as any of us that no team in all Assyria  can beat our beloved bays in a fair race.  
"Didst the goddess whisper in thy ear to bet upon the greys because at the  last turn the inside black would stumble and so interfere with our bays that  the greys would win the race and score an unearned victory?"  
Arkad smiled indulgently at the banter. "What reason have we to feel the  good goddess would take that much interest in any man's bet upon a horse  race? To me she is a goddess of love and dignity whose pleasure it is to aid  those who are in need and to reward those who are deserving. I look to find  her, not at the gaming tables or the races where men lose more gold than  they win but in other places where the doings of men are more worthwhile  and more worthy of reward. 
52  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"In tilling the soil, in honest trading, in all of man's occupations, there is  opportunity to make a profit upon his efforts and his transactions. Perhaps  not all the time will he be rewarded because sometimes his judgment may be  faulty and other times the winds and the weather may defeat his efforts. Yet,  if he persists, he may usually expect to realize his profit. This is so because  the chances of profit are always in his favor.  
"But, when a man playeth the games, the situation is reversed for the chances  of profit are always against him and always in favor of the game keeper. The  game is so arranged that it will always favor the keeper. It is his business at  which he plans to make a liberal profit for himself from the coins bet by the  players. Few players realize how certain are the game keeper's profits and  how uncertain are their own chances to win.  
"For example, let us consider wagers placed upon the cube. Each time it is  cast we bet which side will be uppermost. If it be the red side the game  master pays to us four times our bet. But if any other of the five sides come  uppermost, we lose our bet. Thus the figures show that for each cast we have  five chances to lose, but because the red pays four for one, we have four  chances to win. In a night's play the game master can expect to keep for his  profit one-fifth of all the coins wagered. Can a man expect to win more than  occasionally against odds so arranged that he should lose one-fifth of all his  bets?"  
"Yet some men do win large sums at times," volunteered one of the listeners.  
"Quite so, they do," Arkad continued. "Realizing this, the question comes to  me whether money secured in such ways brings permanent value to those  who are thus lucky. Among my acquaintances are many of the successful men  of Babylon, yet among them I am unable to name a single one who started his  success from such a source.  
"You who are gathered here tonight know many more of our substantial  citizens. To me it would be of much interest to learn how many of our  successful citizens can credit the gaming tables with their start to success.  Suppose each of you tell of those you know. What say you?"  
After a prolonged silence, a wag ventured, 'Wouldst thy inquiry include the  game keepers?" "If you think of no one else," Arkad responded. 
53  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"If not one of you can think of anyone else, then how about yourselves? Are  there any consistent winners with us who hesitate to advise such a source for  their incomes?"  
His challenge was answered by a series of groans from the rear taken up and  spread amid much laughter.  
"It would seem we are not seeking good luck in such places as the goddess  frequents," he continued. "Therefore let us explore other fields. We have not  found it in picking up lost wallets.  
Neither have we found it haunting the gaming tables. As to the races, I must  confess to have lost far more coins there than I have ever won.  
"Now, suppose we consider our trades and businesses. Is it not natural if we  conclude a profitable transaction to consider it not good luck but a just  reward for our efforts? I am inclined to think we may be overlooking the gifts  of the goddess. Perhaps she really does assist us when we do not appreciate  her generosity. Who can suggest further discussion?"  
Thereupon an elderly merchant arose, smoothing his genteel white robe.  "With thy permission, most honorable Arkad and my friends, I offer a  suggestion. If, as you have said, we take credit to our own industry and ability  for our business success, why not consider the successes we almost enjoyed  but which escaped us, happenings which would have been most profitable.  They would have been rare examples of good luck if they had actually  happened. Because they were not brought to fulfillment we cannot consider  them as our just rewards. Surely many men here have such experiences to  relate."  
"Here is a wise approach," Arkad approved. "Who among you have had good  luck within your grasp only to see it escape?"  
Many hands were raised, among them that of the merchant. Arkad motioned  to him to speak.  
"As you suggested this approach, we should like to hear first from you."  
"I will gladly relate a tale," he resumed, "that doth illustrate how closely unto  a man good luck may approach and how blindly he may permit it to escape,  much to his loss and later regret. 
54  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Many years ago, when I was a young man, just married and well-started to  earning, my father did come one day and urge most strongly that I enter in an  investment. The son of one of his good friends had taken notice of a barren  tract of land not far beyond the outer walls of our city. It lay high above the  canal where no water could reach it.  
"The son of my father's friend devised a plan to purchase this land, build  three large water wheels that could be operated by oxen and thereby raise  the life-giving waters to the fertile soil. This accomplished, he planned to  divide into small tracts and sell to the residents of the city for herb patches.  
"The son of my father's friend did not possess sufficient gold to complete such  an undertaking. Like myself, he was a young man earning a fair sum. His  father, like mine, was a man of large family and small means. He, therefore,  decided to interest a group of men to enter the enterprise with him. The  group was to comprise twelve, each of whom must be a money earner and  agree to pay one-tenth of his earnings into the enterprise until the land was  made ready for sale. All would then share justly in the profits in proportion to  their investment."  
'Thou, my son,' bespoke my father unto me, 'art now in thy young manhood. It  is my deep desire that thou begin the building of a valuable estate for myself  that thou mayest become respected among men. I desire to see thou profit  from a knowledge of the thoughtless mistakes of thy father.“ 
This do I most ardently desire, my father,' I replied.  
“Then, this do I advise. Do what I should have done at thy age. From thy  earnings keep out one-tenth to put into favorable investments. With this one tenth of thy earnings and what it will also earn, thou canst, before thou art  my age, accumulate for thyself a valuable estate.  
“Thy words are words of wisdom, my father. Greatly do I desire riches. Yet  there are many uses to which my earnings are called. Therefore, do I hesitate  to do as thou dost advise. I am young.  
There is plenty of time.'  
“So I thought at thy age, yet behold, many years have passed and I have not  yet made the beginning.' 
55  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
“We live in a different age, my father. I shall avoid thy mistakes.'  
“Opportunity stands before thee, my son. It is offering a chance that may  lead to wealth. I beg of thee, do not delay. Go upon the morrow to the son of  my friend and bargain with him to pay ten percent of thy earnings into this  investment. Go promptly upon the morrow. Opportunity waits for no man.  Today it is here; soon it is gone. Therefore, delay not!'  
"In spite of the advice of my father, I did hesitate. There were beautiful new  robes just brought by the tradesmen from the East, robes of such richness and  beauty my good wife and I felt we must each possess one. Should I agree to  pay one-tenth of my earnings into the enterprise, we must deprive ourselves  of these and other pleasures we dearly desired. I delayed making a decision  until it was too late, much to my subsequent regret. The enterprise did prove  to be more profitable than any man had prophesied. This is my tale, showing  how I did permit good luck to escape."  
"In this tale we see how good luck waits to come to that man who accepts  opportunity," commented a swarthy man of the desert. "To the building of an  estate there must always be the beginning. That start may be a few pieces of  gold or silver which a man diverts from his earnings to his first investment. I,  myself, am the owner of many herds. The start of my herds I did begin when I  was a mere boy and did purchase with one piece of silver a young calf. This,  being the beginning of my wealth, was of great importance to me.  
"To take his first start to building an estate is as good luck as can come to any  man. With all men, that first step, which changes them from men who earn  from their own labor to men who draw dividends from the earnings of their  gold, is important. Some, fortunately, take it when young and thereby  outstrip in financial success those who do take it later or those unfortunate  men, like the father of this merchant, who never take it.  
"Had our friend, the merchant, taken this step in his early manhood when this  opportunity came to him, this day he would be blessed with much more of  this world's goods. Should the good luck of our friend, the cloth weaver,  cause him to take such a step at this time, it will indeed be but the beginning  of much greater good fortune."  
"Thank you! I like to speak, also." A stranger from another country arose. "I  am a Syrian. Not so well do I speak your tongue. I wish to call this friend, the 
56  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
merchant, a name. Maybe you think it not polite, this name. Yet I wish to call  him that. But, alas, I not know your word for it. If I do call it in Syrian, you  will not understand. Therefore, please some good gentlemen, tell me that  right name you call man who puts off doing those things that mighty good for  him."  
"Procrastinator," called a voice.  
"That's him," shouted the Syrian, waving his hands excitedly, "he accepts not  opportunity when she comes. He waits. He says I have much business right  now. Bye and bye I talk to you. Opportunity, she will not wait for such slow  fellow. She thinks if a man desires to be lucky he will step quick. Any man not  step quick when opportunity comes, he big procrastinator like our friend, this  merchant."  
The merchant arose and bowed good naturedly in response to the laughter.  "My admiration to thee, stranger within our gates, who hesitates not to speak  the truth."  
"And now let us hear another tale of opportunity. Who has for us another  experience?" demanded Arkad.  
"I have," responded a red-robed man of middle age. "I am a buyer of animals,  mostly camels and horses. Sometimes I do also buy the sheep and goats. The  tale I am about to relate will tell truthfully how opportunity came one night  
when I did least expect it. Perhaps for this reason I did let it escape. Of this  you shall be the judge.  
"Returning to the city one evening after a disheartening ten- days' journey in  search of camels, I was much angered to find the gates of the city closed and  locked. While my slaves spread our tent for the night, which we looked to  spend with little food and no I water, I was approached by an elderly farmer  who, like ourselves, found himself locked outside.  
“Honored sir,' he addressed me, 'from thy appearance, I do judge thee to be a  buyer. If this be so, much would I like to sell to thee the most excellent flock  of sheep just driven up. Alas, my good wife lies very sick with the fever. I  must return with all haste. Buy thou my sheep that I and my slaves may  mount our camels and travel back without delay." 
57  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"So dark it was that I could not see his flock, but from the bleating I did know  it must be large.  
Having wasted ten days searching for camels I could not find, I was glad to  bargain with him. In his anxiety, he did set a most reasonable price. I  accepted, well knowing my slaves could drive the flock through the city gates  in the morning and sell at a substantial profit.  
The bargain concluded, I called my slaves to bring torches that we might  count the flock which the farmer declared to contain nine hundred. I shall not  burden you, my friends, with a description of our difficulty in attempting to  count so many thirsty, restless, milling sheep. It proved to be an impossible  task. Therefore, I bluntly informed the farmer I would count them at daylight  and pay him then.  
“Please, most honorable sir,' he pleaded, 'pay me but two-thirds of the price  tonight that I may be on my way. I will leave my most intelligent and  educated slave to assist to make the count in the morning. He is trustworthy  and to him thou canst pay the balance.  
"But I was stubborn and refused to make payment that night. Next morning,  before I awoke, the city gates opened and four buyers rushed out in search of  flocks. They were most eager and willing to pay high prices because the city  was threatened with siege, and food was not plentiful. Nearly three times the  price at which he had offered the flock to me did the old farmer receive for  it. Thus was rare good luck allowed to escape."  
"Here is a tale most unusual," commented Arkad. "What wisdom doth it  suggest?"  
"The wisdom of making a payment immediately when we are convinced our  bargain is wise," suggested a venerable saddle maker. "If the bargain be good,  then dost thou need protection against thy own weaknesses as much as  against any other man. We mortals are changeable. Alas, I must say more apt  to change our minds when right than wrong. Wrong, we are stubborn indeed.  Right, we are prone to vacillate and let opportunity escape. My first  judgment is my best. Yet always have I found it difficult to compel myself to  proceed with a good bargain when made. Therefore, as a protection against  my own weaknesses, I do make a prompt deposit thereon. This doth save me  from later regrets for the good luck that should have been mine." 
58  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Thank you! Again I like to speak." The Syrian was upon his feet once more.  "These tales much alike. Each time opportunity fly away for same reason.  Each time she come to procrastinator, bringing good plan. Each time they  hesitate, not say, right now best time, I do it quick. How can men succeed  that way?"  
"Wise are thy words, my friend," responded the buyer. "Good luck fled from  procrastination in both these tales. Yet, this is not unusual. The spirit of  procrastination is within all men. We desire riches; yet, how often when  opportunity doth appear before us, that spirit of procrastination from within  doth urge various delays in our acceptance.  
In listening to it we do become our own worst enemies. "In my younger days I  did not know it by this long word our friend from Syria doth enjoy. I did think  at first it was my own poor judgment that did cause me loss of many  profitable trades. Later, I did credit it to my stubborn disposition. At last, I  did recognize it for what it was—a habit of needless delaying where action  was required, action prompt and decisive. How I did hate it when its true  character stood revealed. With the bitterness of a wild ass hitched to a  chariot, I did break loose from this enemy to my success."  
"Thank you! I like ask question from Mr. Merchant." The Syrian was speaking.  
"You wear fine robes, not like those of poor man. You speak like successful  man. Tell us, do you listen now when procrastination whispers in your ear?"  
"Like our friend the buyer, I also had to recognize and conquer  procrastination," responded the merchant. "To me, it proved to be an enemy,  ever watching and waiting to thwart my accomplishments.  
The tale I did relate is but one of many similar instances I could tell to show  how it drove away my opportunities. Tis not difficult to conquer, once  understood. No man willingly permits the thief to rob his bins of grain. Nor  does any man willingly permit an enemy to drive away his customers and rob  him of his profits. When once I did recognize that such acts as these my  enemy was committing, with determination I conquered him. So must every  man master his own spirit of procrastination before he can expect to share in  the rich treasures of Babylon. 
59  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"What sayest, Arkad? Because thou art the richest man in Babylon, many do  proclaim thee to be the luckiest. Dost agree with me that no man can arrive  at a full measure of success until he hath completely crushed the spirit of  procrastination within him?"  
"It is even as thou sayest," Arkad admitted. "During my long life I have  watched generation following generation, marching forward along those  avenues of trade, science and learning that lead to success in life.  Opportunities came to all these men. Some grasped theirs and moved steadily  to the gratification of their deepest desires, but the majority hesitated,  faltered and fell behind."  
Arkad turned to the cloth weaver. Thou didst suggest that we debate good  luck. Let us hear what thou now thinkest upon the subject."  
"I do see good luck in a different light. I had thought of it as something most  desirable that might happen to a man without effort upon his part. Now, I do  realize such happenings are not the sort of thing one may attract to himself.  
From our discussion have I learned that to attract good luck to oneself, it is  necessary to take advantage of opportunities. Therefore, in the future, I shall  endeavor to make the best of such opportunities as do come to me."  
"Thou hast well grasped the truths brought forth in our discussion," Arkad  replied. "Good luck, we do find, often follows opportunity but seldom comes  otherwise. Our merchant friend would have found great good luck had he  accepted the opportunity the good goddess did present to him. Our friend the  buyer, likewise, would have enjoyed good luck had he completed the  purchase of the flock and sold at such a handsome profit.  
"We did pursue this discussion to find a means by which good luck could be  enticed to us. I feel that we have found the way. Both the tales did illustrate  how good luck follows opportunity. Herein lies a truth that many similar tales  of good luck, won or lost, could not change. The truth is this: Good luck can  be enticed by accepting opportunity.  
"Those eager to grasp opportunities for their betterment, do attract the  interest of the good goddess. She is ever anxious to aid those who please her.  Men of action please her best.  
"Action will lead thee forward to the successes thou dost desire." 
60  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
MEN OF ACTION ARE FAVORED BY THE GODDESS OF GOOD LUCK 
61  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Five Laws of Gold  
"A bag heavy with gold or a clay tablet carved with words of wisdom; if thou  hadst thy choice, which wouldst thou choose?"  
By the flickering light from the fire of desert shrubs, the sun-tanned faces of  the listeners gleamed with interest.  
"The gold, the gold," chorused the twenty-seven.  
Old Kalabab smiled knowingly.  
"Hark," he resumed, raising his hand. "Hear the wild dogs out there in the  night. They howl and wail because they are lean with hunger. Yet feed them,  and what do they? Fight and strut. Then fight and strut some more, giving no  thought to the morrow that will surely come.  
"Just so it is with the sons of men. Give them a choice of gold and wisdom— what do they do?  
Ignore the wisdom and waste the gold. On the morrow they wail because they  have no more gold.  
"Gold is reserved for those who know its laws and abide by them."  
Kalabab drew his white robe close about his lean legs, for a cool night wind  was blowing.  
"Because thou hast served me faithfully upon our long journey, because thou  cared well for my camels, because thou toiled uncomplainingly across the hot  sands of the desert, because thou fought bravely the robbers that sought to  despoil my merchandise, I will tell thee this night the tale of the five laws of  gold, such a tale as thou never hast heard before.  
"Hark ye, with deep attention to the words I speak, for if you grasp their  meaning and heed them, in the days that come thou shalt have much gold."  
He paused impressively. Above in a canopy of blue, the stars shone brightly in  the crystal clear skies of Babylonia. Behind the group loomed their faded  tents tightly staked against possible desert storms. Beside the tents were  neatly stacked bales of merchandise covered with skins. Nearby the camel 
62  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
herd sprawled in the sand, some chewing their cuds contentedly, others  snoring in hoarse discord.  
"Thou hast told us many good tales, Kalabab," spoke up the chief packer. "We  look to thy wisdom to guide us upon the morrow when our service with thee  shall be at an end."  
"I have but told thee of my adventures in strange and distant lands, but this  night I shall tell thee of the wisdom of Arkad, the wise rich man."  
"Much have we heard of him," acknowledged the chief packer, "for he was the  richest man that ever lived in Babylon."  
"The richest man he was, and that because be was wise in the ways of gold,  even as no man had ever been before him. This night shall I tell you of his  great wisdom as it was told to me by Nomasir, his son, many years ago in  Nineveh, when I was but a lad.  
"My master and myself had tarried long into the night in the palace of  Nomasir. I had helped my master bring great bundles of fine rugs, each one to  be tried by Nomasir until his choice of colors was satisfied. At last he was  well pleased and commanded us to sit with him and to drink a rare vintage  odorous to the nostrils and most warming to my stomach, which was  unaccustomed to such a drink.  
"Then, did he tell us this tale of the great wisdom of Arkad, his father, even  as I shall tell it to you.  
"In Babylon it is the custom, as you know, that the sons of wealthy fathers  live with their parents in expectation of inheriting the estate. Arkad did not  approve of this custom. Therefore, when Nomasir reached man's estate, he  sent for the young man and addressed him:  
“My son, it is my desire that thou succeed to my estate. Thou must, however,  first prove that thou art capable of wisely handling it. Therefore, I wish that  thou go out into the world and show thy ability both to acquire gold and to  make thyself respected among men.  
“To start thee well, I will give thee two things of which I, myself, was denied  when I started as a poor youth to build up a fortune. 
63  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
“First, I give thee this bag of gold. If thou use it wisely, it will be the basis of  thy future success.  
“Second, I give thee this clay tablet upon which is carved the five laws of  gold. If thou dost but interpret them in thy own acts, they shall bring thee  competence and security.  
“Ten years from this day come thou back to the house of thy father and give  account of thyself. If thou prove worthy, I will then make thee the heir to my  estate. Otherwise, I will give it to the priests that they may barter for my  soul the land consideration of the gods.'  
"So Nomasir went forth to make his own way, taking his bag of gold, the clay  tablet carefully wrapped in silken cloth, his slave and the horses upon which  they rode.  
"The ten years passed, and Nomasir, as he had agreed, returned to the house  of his father who provided a great feast in his honor, to which he invited  many friends and relatives. After the feast was over, the father and mother  mounted their throne-like seats at one side of the great hall, and Nomasir  stood before them to give an account of himself as he had promised his  father.  
It was evening. The room was hazy with smoke from the wicks of the oil  lamps that but dimly lighted it. Slaves in white woven jackets and tunics  fanned the humid air rhythmically with long-stemmed palm leaves. A stately  dignity colored the scene. The wife of Nomasir and his two young sons, with  friends and other members of the family, sat upon rugs behind him, eager  listeners.  
“My father,' he began deferentially, I bow before thy wisdom. Ten years ago  when I stood at the gates of manhood, thou bade me go forth and become a  man among men, instead of remaining a vassal to thy fortune.  
“Thou gave me liberally of thy gold. Thou gave me liberally of thy wisdom. Of  the gold, alas!  
I must admit of a disastrous handling. It fled, indeed, from my inexperienced  hands even as a wild hare flees at the first opportunity from the youth who  captures it.' 
64  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The father smiled indulgently. “Continue, my son, thy tale interests me in all  its details.”  
“I decided to go to Nineveh, as it was a growing city, believing that I might  find there opportunities. I joined a caravan and among its members made  numerous friends. Two well-spoken men who had a most beautiful white  horse as fleet as the wind were among these.  
“As we journeyed, they told me in confidence that in Nineveh was a wealthy  man who owned a horse so swift that it had never been beaten. Its owner  believed that no horse living could run with greater speed. Therefore, would  he wager any sum however large that his horse could outspeed any horse in  all Babylonia. Compared to their horse, so my friends said, it was but a  lumbering ass that could be beaten with ease.  
“They offered, as a great favor, to permit me to join them in a wager. I was  quite carried away with the plan.  
“Our horse was badly beaten and I lost much of my gold.' The father laughed.  'Later, I discovered that this was a deceitful plan of these men and they  constantly journeyed with caravans seeking victims. You see, the man in  Nineveh was their partner and shared with them the bets he won.  This shrewd deceit taught me my first lesson in looking out for myself.  
“I was soon to learn another, equally bitter. In the caravan was another  young man with whom I became quite friendly. He was the son of wealthy  parents and, like myself, journeying to Nineveh to find a suitable location.  Not long after our arrival, he told me that a merchant had died and his shop  with its rich merchandise and patronage could be secured at a paltry price.  Saying that we would be equal partners but first he must return to Babylon to  secure his gold, he prevailed upon me to purchase the stock with my gold,  agreeing that his would be used later to carry on our venture.  
“He long delayed the trip to Babylon, proving in the meantime to be an  unwise buyer and a foolish spender. I finally put him out, but not before the  business had deteriorated to where we had only unsalable goods and no gold  to buy other goods. I sacrificed what was left to an Israelite for a pitiful sum.  
“Soon there followed, I tell you, my father, bitter days. I sought employment  and found it not, for I was without trade or training that would enable me to 
65  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
earn. I sold my horses. I sold my slave. I sold my extra robes that I might have  food and a place to sleep, but each day grim want crouched closer.  
“But in those bitter days, I remembered thy confidence in me, my father.  
Thou hadst sent me forth to become a man, and this I was determined to  accomplish.' The mother buried her face and wept softly. “At this time, I  bethought me of the table thou had given to me upon which thou had carved  the five laws of gold. Thereupon, I read most carefully thy words of wisdom,  and realized that had I but sought wisdom first, my gold would not have been  lost to me.  
I learned by heart each law and determined that, when once more the  goddess of good fortune smiled upon me, I would be guided by the wisdom of  age and not by the inexperience of youth.  
“For the benefit of you who are seated here this night, I will read the wisdom  of my father as engraved upon the clay tablet which he gave to me ten years  ago:  
THE FIVE LAWS OF GOLD  
I. Gold cometh gladly and in increasing quantity to any man who will put  by not less than one-tenth of his earngs to create an estate for his  future and that of his family.  
II. Gold laboreth diligently and contentedly for the wise owner who finds  for it profitable employment, multiplying even as the flocks of the  field.  
III. Gold clingeth to the protection of the cautious owner who invests it  under the advice of men wise in its handling.  
IV. Gold slippeth away from the man who invests it in businesses or  purposes with which he is not familiar or which are not approved by  those skilled in its keep.  
V. Gold flees the man who would force it to impossible earnings or who  followeth the alluring advice of tricksters and schemers or who trusts  it to his own inexperience and romantic desires in investment. 
66  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
“These are the five laws of gold as written by my father. I do proclaim them  as of greater value than gold itself, as I will show by the continuance of my  tale.'  
"He again faced his father. 'I have told thee of the depth of poverty and  despair to which my inexperience brought me.  
“However, there is no chain of disasters that will not come to an end. Mine  came when I secured employment managing a crew of slaves working upon  the new outer wall of the city. "  
'Profiting from my knowledge of the first law of gold, I saved a copper from  my first earnings, adding to it at every opportunity until I had a piece of  silver. It was a slow procedure, for one must live.  
I did spend grudgingly, I admit, because I was determined to earn back before  the ten years were over as much gold as you, my father, had given to me.  
“One day the slave master, with whom I had become quite friendly, said to  me: "Thou art a thrifty youth who spends not wantonly what he earns. Hast  thou gold put by that is not earning?" "  
'Yes,' I replied, 'It is my greatest desire to accumulate gold to replace that  which my father gave to me and which I have lost.'  
“Tis a worthy ambition, I will grant, and do you know that the gold which you  have saved can work for you and earn much more gold?"  
“Alas! my experience has been bitter, for my father's gold has fled from me,  and I am in much fear lest my own do the same.'  
“If thou hast confidence in me, I will give thee a lesson in the profitable  handling of gold," he replied. "Within a year the outer wall will be complete  and ready for the great gates of bronze that will be built at each entrance to  protect the city from the king's enemies.  
In all Nineveh there is not enough metal to make these gates and the king has  not thought to provide it. Here is my plan: A group of us will pool our gold  and send a caravan to the mines of copper and tin, which are distant, and  bring to Nineveh the metal for the gates. When the king says, 'Make the great  gates,' we alone can supply the metal and a rich price he will pay. If the king 
67  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
will not buy from us, we will yet have the metal which can be sold for a fair  price."  
“In his offer I recognized an opportunity to abide by the third law and invest  my savings under the guidance of wise men. Nor was I disappointed. Our pool  was a success, and my small store of gold was greatly increased by the  transaction.  
“In due time, I was accepted as a member of this same group in other  ventures. They were men wise in the profitable handling of gold. They talked  over each plan presented with great care, before entering upon it. They  would take no chance on losing their principal or tying it up in unprofitable  investments from which their gold could not be recovered. Such foolish things  as the horse race and the partnership into which I had entered with my  inexperience would have had scant consideration with them. They would have  immediately pointed out their weaknesses.  
“Through my association with these men, I learned to safely invest gold to  bring profitable returns. As the years went on, my treasure increased more  and more rapidly. I not only made back as much as I lost, but much more.  
“Through my misfortunes, my trials and my success, I have tested time and  again the wisdom of the five laws of gold, my father, and have proven them  true in every test. To him who is without knowledge of the five laws, gold  comes not often, and goeth away quickly. But to him who abide by the five  laws, gold comes and works as his dutiful slave.'  
"Nomasir ceased speaking and motioned to a slave in the back of the room.  The slave brought forward, one at a time, three heavy leather bags. One of  these Nomasir took and placed upon the floor before his father addressing  him again:  
“Thou didst give to me a bag of gold, Babylon gold. Behold in its place, I do  return to thee a bag of Nineveh gold of equal weight An equal exchange, as  all will agree.  
“Thou didst give to me a clay tablet inscribed with wisdom. Behold, in its  stead, I do return two bags of gold.' So saying, he took from the slave the  other two bags and, likewise, placed them upon the floor before his father. 
68  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
“This I do to prove to thee, my father, of how much greater value I consider  thy wisdom than thy gold. Yet, who can measure in bags of gold, the value of  wisdom? Without wisdom, gold is quickly lost by those who have it, but with  wisdom, gold can be secured by those who have it not, as these three bags of  gold do prove.  
“It does, indeed, give to me the deepest satisfaction, my father, to stand  before thee and say that, because of thy wisdom, I have been able to become  rich and respected before men.'  
"The father placed his hand fondly upon the head of Nomasir. 'Thou hast  learned well thy lessons, and I am, indeed, fortunate to have a son to whom I  may entrust my wealth.'  
" Kalabab ceased his tale and looked critically at his listeners.  "What means this to thee, this tale of Nomasir?" he continued.  
"Who amongst thee can go to thy father or to the father of thy wife and give  an account of wise handling of his earnings?  
"What would these venerable men think were you to say: 'I have traveled  much and learned much and labored much and earned much, yet alas, of gold  I have little. Some I spent wisely, some I spent foolishly and much I lost in  unwise ways.'  
"Dost still think it but an inconsistency of fate that some men have much gold  and others have naught? Then you err.  
"Men have much gold when they know the five laws of gold and abide  thereby.  
"Because I learned these five laws in my youth and abided by them, I have  become a wealthy merchant. Not by some strange magic did I accumulate my  wealth.  
"Wealth that comes quickly goeth the same way.  
"Wealth that stayeth to give enjoyment and satisfaction to its owner comes  gradually, because it is a child born of knowledge and persistent purpose. 
69  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"To earn wealth is but a slight burden upon the thoughtful man. Bearing the  burden consistently from year to year accomplishes the final purpose.  
"The five laws of gold offer to thee a rich reward for their observance. "Each  of these five laws is rich with meaning and lest thou overlook this in the  briefness of my tale, I will now repeat them. I do know them each by heart  because in my youth, I could see their value and would not be content until I  knew them word for word.  
The First Law of Gold  
Gold cometh gladly and in increasing quantity to any man who will put by not  less than one-tenth of his earnings to create an estate for his future and that  of his family.  
"Any man who will put by one-tenth of his earnings consistently and invest it  wisely will surely create a valuable estate that will provide an income for him  in the future and further guarantee safety for his family in case the gods call  him to the world of darkness. This law always sayeth that gold cometh gladly  to such a man. I can truly certify this in my own life. The more gold I  accumulate, the more readily it comes to me and in increased quantities. The  gold which I save earns more, even as yours will, and its earnings earn more,  and this is the working out of the first law."  
The Second Law of Gold  
Gold laboreth diligently and contentedly for the wise owner who finds for it  profitable employment, multiplying even as the flocks of the field.  
"Gold, indeed, is a willing worker. It is ever eager to multiply when  opportunity presents itself. To every man who hath a store of gold set by,  opportunity comes for its most profitable use. As the years pass, it multiplies  itself in surprising fashion."  
The Third Law of Gold  
Gold clingeth to the protection of the cautious owner who invests it under  the advice of men wise in its handling. 
70  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Gold, indeed, clingeth to the cautious owner, even as it flees the careless  owner. The man who seeks the advice of men wise in handling gold soon  learneth not to jeopardize his treasure, but to preserve in safety and to enjoy  in contentment its consistent increase."  
The Fourth Law of Gold  
Gold slippeth away from the man who invests it in businesses or purposes  with which he is not familiar or which are not approved by those skilled in  its keep.  
To the man who hath gold, yet is not skilled in its handling, many uses for it  appear most profitable. Too often these are fraught with danger of loss, and  if properly analyzed by wise men, show small possibility of profit. Therefore,  the inexperienced owner of gold who trusts to his own judgment and invests  
it in business or purposes with which he is not familiar, too often finds his  judgment imperfect, and pays with his treasure for his inexperience. Wise,  indeed is he who investeth his treasures under the advice of men skilled In  the ways of gold."  
The Fifth Law of Gold  
Gold flees the man who would force it to impossible earnings or who  followeth the alluring advice of tricksters and schemers or who trusts it to  his own inexperience and romantic desires in investment.  
"Fanciful propositions that thrill like adventure tales always come to the new  owner of gold. These appear to endow his treasure with magic powers that  will enable it to make impossible earnings. Yet heed ye the wise men for  verily they know the risks that lurk behind every plan to make great wealth  suddenly.  
"Forget not the rich men of Nineveh who would take no chance of losing their  principal or tying it up in unprofitable investments. "This ends my tale of the  five laws of gold. In telling it to thee, I have told the secrets of my own  success. 
71  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Yet, they are not secrets but truths which every man must first learn and  then follow who wishes to step out of the multitude that, like you wild dogs,  must worry each day for food to eat.  
"Tomorrow, we enter Babylon. Look! See the fire that burns eternal above the  Temple of Bel! We are already in sight of the golden city. Tomorrow, each of  thee shall have gold, the gold thou has so well earned by thy faithful services.  
"Ten years from this night, what can you tell about this gold?  
"If there be men among you, who, like Nomasir, will use a portion of their  gold to start for themselves an estate and be thenceforth wisely guided by  the wisdom of Arkad, ten years from now, 'tis a safe wager, like the son of  Arkad, they will be rich and respected among men.  
"Our wise acts accompany us through life to please us and to help us. Just as  surely, our unwise acts follow us to plague and torment us. Alas, they cannot  be forgotten. In the front rank of the torments that do follow us are the  memories of the things we should have done, of the opportunities which  came to us and we took not.  
"Rich are the treasures of Babylon, so rich no man can count their value in  pieces of gold. Each year, they grow richer and more valuable. Like the  treasures of every land, they are a reward, a rich reward awaiting those men  of purpose who determine to secure their just share.  
"In the strength of thine own desires is a magic power. Guide this power with  thy knowledge of the five laws of gold and thou shall share the treasures of  Babylon." 
72  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
The Gold Lender of Babylon  
Fifty pieces of gold! Never before had Rodan, the spearmaker of old Babylon,  carried so much gold in his leather wallet. Happily down the king's highway  from the palace of his most liberal Majesty he strode. Cheerfully the gold  clinked as the wallet at his belt swayed with each step—the sweetest music  he had ever heard.  
Fifty pieces of gold! All his! He could hardly realize his good fortune. What  power in those clinking discs! They could purchase anything he wanted, a  grand house, land, cattle, camels, horses, chariots, whatever he might  desire.  
What use should he make of it? This evening as he turned into a side street  towards the home of his sister, he could think of nothing he would rather  possess than those same glittering, heavy pieces of gold—his to keep.  It was upon an evening some days later that a perplexed Rodan entered the  shop of Mathon, the lender of gold and dealer in jewels and rare fabrics.  Glancing neither to the right nor the left at the colorful articles artfully  displayed, he passed through to the living quarters at the rear. Here he found  the genteel Mathon lounging upon a rug partaking of a meal served by a black  slave.  
"I would counsel with thee for I know not what to do." Rodan stood stolidly,  feet apart, hairy breast exposed by the gaping front of his leather jacket.  Mathon's narrow, sallow face smiled a friendly greeting. "What indiscretions  hast thou done that thou shouldst seek the lender of gold? Hast been unlucky  at the gaming table? Or hath some plump dame entangled thee? For many  years have I known thee, yet never hast thou sought me to aid thee in thy  troubles."  
"No, no. Not such as that. I seek no gold. Instead I crave thy wise advice."  
"Hear! Hear! What this man doth say. No one comes to the lender of gold for  advice. My ears must play me false."  
"They listen true." 
73  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Can this be so? Rodan, the spearmaker, doth display more cunning than all  the rest, for he comes to Mathon, not for gold, but for advice. Many men  come to me for gold to pay for their follies, but as for advice, they want it  not. Yet who is more able to advise than the lender of gold to whom many  men come in trouble?  
"Thou shalt eat with me, Rodan," he continued. Thou shalt be my guest for  the evening. Andol" he commanded of the black slave, "draw up a rag for my  friend, Rodan, the spearmaker, who comes for advice. He shall be mine  honored guest. Bring to him much food and get for him my largest cup.  
Choose well of the best wine that he may have satisfaction in the drinking.  "Now, tell me what troubles thee."  
"It is the king's gift."  
"The king's gift? The king did make thee a gift and it gives thee trouble? What  manner of gift?"  
"Because he was much pleased with the design I did submit to him for a new  point on the spears of the royal guard, he did present me with fifty pieces of  gold, and now I am much perplexed.  
"I am beseeched each hour the sun doth travel across the sky by those who  would share it with me."  
"That is natural. More men want gold than have it, and would wish one who  comes by it easily to divide. But can you not say "No?" Is thy will not as strong  as thy fist?"  
"To many I can say no, yet sometimes it would be easier to say yes. Can one  refuse to share with one's sister to whom he is deeply devoted?"  "Surely, thy own sister would not wish to deprive thee of enjoying thy  reward."  
"But it is for the sake of Araman, her husband, whom she wishes to see a rich  merchant. She does feel that he has never had a chance and she beseeches  me to loan to him this gold that he may become a prosperous merchant and  repay me from his profits." 
74  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"My friend," resumed Mathon, “tis a worthy subject thou bringest to discuss.  Gold bringeth unto its possessor responsibility and a changed position with his  fellow men. It bringeth fear lest he lose it or it be tricked away from him. It  bringeth a feeling of power and ability to do good. Likewise, it bringeth  opportunities whereby his very good intentions may bring him into  difficulties.  
"Didst ever hear of the farmer of Nineveh who could understand the language  of animals? I wot not, for 'tis not the kind of tale men like to tell over the  bronze caster's forge. I will tell it to thee for thou shouldst know that to  borrowing and lending there is more than the passing of gold from the hands  of one to the hands of another.  
"This farmer, who could understand what the animals said to each other, did  linger in the farm yard each evening just to listen to their words. One evening  he did hear the ox bemoaning to the ass the hardness of his lot: 'I do labor  pulling the plow from morning until night. No matter how 87hot the day, or  how tired my legs, or how the bow doth chafe my neck, still must I work. But  you are a creature of leisure. You are trapped with a colorful blanket and do  nothing more than carry our master about where he wishes to go. When he  goes nowhere you do rest and eat the green grass all the day.'  
"Now the ass, in spite of his vicious heels, was a goodly fellow and  sympathized with the ox.  
'My good friend, he replied, 'you do work very hard and I would help ease your  lot. Therefore, will I tell you how you may have a day of rest. In the morning  when the slave comes to fetch you to the plow, lie upon the ground and  bellow much that he may say you are sick and cannot work.'  
"So the ox took the advice of the ass and the next morning the slave returned  to the farmer and told him the ox was sick and could not pull the plow.  
“Then,' said the farmer, "hitch the ass to the plow for the plowing must go  on.'  
"All that day the ass, who had only intended to help his friend, found himself  compelled to do the ox's task. When night came and he was released from the  plow his heart was bitter and his legs were weary and his neck was sore  where the bow had chafed it. 
75  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"The farmer lingered in the barnyard to listen.  
"The ox began first. 'You are my good friend. Because of your wise advice I  have enjoyed a day of rest.'  
“And I,' retorted the ass, 'am like many another simple-hearted one who  starts to help a friend and ends up by doing his task for him. Hereafter you  draw your own plow, for I did hear the master tell the slave to send for the  butcher were you sick again. I wish he would, for you are a lazy fellow.'  
Thereafter they spoke to each other no more— this ended their friendship.  Canst thou tell the moral to this tale, Rodan?"  
“Tis a good tale," responded Rodan, "but I see not the moral."  
"I thought not that you would. But it is there and simple too. Just this: If you  desire to help thy friend, do so in a way that will not bring thy friend's  burdens upon thyself."  
"I had not thought of that. It is a wise moral. I wish not to assume the burdens  of my sister's husband. But tell me. You lend to many. Do not the borrowers  repay?"  
Mathon smiled the smile of one whose soul is rich with much experience.  
"Could a loan be well made if the borrower cannot repay? Must not the lender  be wise and judge carefully whether his gold can perform a useful purpose to  the borrower and return to him once more; or whether it will be wasted by  one unable to use it wisely and leave him without his treasure, and leave the  borrower with a debt he cannot repay? I will show to thee the tokens in my  token chest and let them tell thee some of their stories."  
Into the room he brought a chest as long as his arm covered with red pigskin  and ornamented with bronze designs. He placed it upon the floor and  squatted before it, both hands upon the lid.  
"From each person to whom I lend, I do exact a token for my token chest, to  remain there until the loan is repaid. When they repay I give back, but if they  never repay it will always remind me of one who was not faithful to my  confidence. 
76  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"The safest loans, my token box tells me, are to those whose possessions are  of more value than the one they desire. They own lands, or jewels, or  camels, or other things which could be sold to repay the loan. Some of the  tokens given to me are jewels of more value than the loan. Others are  promises that if the loan be not repaid as agreed they will deliver to me  certain property settlement. On loans like those I am assured that my gold  will be returned with the rental thereon, for the loan is based on property.  
"In another class are those who have the capacity to earn. They are such as  you, who labor or serve and are paid. They have income and if they are  honest and suffer no misfortune, I know that they also can repay the gold I  loan them and the rental to which I am entitled. Such loans are based on  human effort.  
"Others are those who have neither property nor assured earning capacity.  Life is hard and there will always be some who cannot adjust themselves to  it. Alas for the loans I make them, even though they be no larger than a  pence, my token box may censure me in the years to come unless they be  guaranteed by good friends of the borrower who know him honorable."  
Mathon released the clasp and opened the lid. Rodan leaned forward eagerly.  At the top of the chest a bronze neck-piece lay upon a scarlet cloth. Mathon  picked up the piece and patted it affectionately. "This shall always remain in  my token chest because the owner has passed on into the great darkness. I  treasure, it, his token, and I treasure his memory; for he was my good friend.  We traded together with much success until out of the east he brought a  woman to wed, beautiful, but not like our women. A dazzling creature. He  spent his gold lavishly to gratify her desires.  
He came to me in distress when his gold was gone. I counseled with him. I  told him I would help him to once more master his own affairs. He swore by  the sign of the Great Bull that he would. But it was not to be. In a quarrel she  thrust a knife into the heart he dared her to pierce."  
"And she?" questioned Rodan.  
"Yes, of course, this was hers." He picked up the scarlet cloth. "In bitter  remorse she threw herself into the Euphrates. These two loans will never be  repaid. The chest tells you, Rodan, that humans in the throes of great  emotions are not safe risks for the gold lender. 
77  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Here! Now this is different." He reached for a ring carved of ox bone. "This  belongs to a farmer. I buy the rugs of his women. The locusts came and they  had not food. I helped him and when the new crop came he repaid me. Later  he came again and told of strange goats in a distant land as described by a  traveler. They had long hair so fine and soft it would weave into rugs more  beautiful than any ever seen in Babylon. He wanted a herd but he had no  money. So I did lend him gold to make the journey and bring back goats. Now  his herd is begun and next year I shall surprise the lords of Babylon with the  most expensive rugs it has been their good fortune to buy. Soon I must return  his ring.  
He doth insist on repaying promptly."  
"Some borrowers do that?' queried Rodan.  
"If they borrow for purposes that bring money back to them, I find it so. But if  they borrow because of their indiscretions, I warn thee to be cautious if thou  wouldst ever have thy gold back in hand again."  
“Tell me about this,” requested Rodan, picking up a heavy gold bracelet inset  with jewels in rare designs.  
"The women do appeal to my good friend," bantered Mathon.  ”I am still much younger than you," retorted Rodan.  
"I grant that, but this time thou doth suspicion romance where it is not. The  owner of this is fat and wrinkled and doth talk so much and say so little she  drives me mad. Once they had much money and were good customers, but ill  times came upon them. She has a son of whom she would make a merchant.  So she came to me and borrowed gold that he might become a partner of a  caravan owner who travels with his camels bartering in one city what he buys  in another.  
"This man proved a rascal for he left the poor boy in a distant city without  money and without friends, pulling out early while the youth slept. Perhaps  when this youth has grown to manhood, he will repay; until then I get no  rental for the loan—only much talk. But I do admit the jewels are worthy of  the loan."  
"Did this lady ask thy advice as to the wisdom of the loan?" 
78  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"Quite otherwise. She had pictured to herself this son of hers as a wealthy  and powerful man of Babylon. To suggest the contrary was to infuriate her. A  fair rebuke I had. I knew the risk for this inexperienced boy, but as she  offered security I could not refuse her.  
"This," continued Mathon, waving a bit of pack rope tied into a knot, "belongs  to Nebatur, the camel trader. When he would buy a herd larger than his funds  he brings to me this knot and I lend to him according to his needs. He is a  wise trader. I have confidence in his good judgment and can lend him freely.  Many other merchants of Babylon have my confidence because of their  honorable behavior.  
Their 92tokens come and go frequently in my token box. Good merchants are  an asset to our city and it profits me to aid them to keep trade moving that  Babylon be prosperous."  
Mathon picked out a beetle carved in turquoise and tossed it contemptuously  on the floor. "A bug from Egypt. The lad who owns this does not care whether  I ever receive back my gold. When I reproach him he replies, 'How can I repay  when ill fate pursues me? You have plenty more.' What can I do? The token is  
his father's—a worthy man of small means who did pledge his land and herd to  back his son's enterprises. The youth found success at first and then was over zealous to gain great wealth.  
His knowledge was immature. His enterprises collapsed. "Youth is ambitious.  Youth would take short cuts to wealth and the desirable things for which it  stands. To secure wealth quickly youth often borrows unwisely.  
Youth, never having had experience, cannot realize that hopeless debt is like  a deep pit into which one may descend quickly and where one may struggle  vainly for many days. It is a pit of sorrow and regrets where the brightness of  the sun is overcast and night is made unhappy by restless sleeping.  
Yet, I do not discourage borrowing gold. I encourage it. I recommend it if it  be for a wise purpose. I myself made my first real success as a merchant with  borrowed gold.  
"Yet, what should the lender do in such a case? The youth is in despair and  accomplishes nothing. He is discouraged. He makes no effort to repay. My  heart turns against depriving the father of his land and cattle." 
79  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com 
"You tell me much that I am interested to hear," ventured Rodan, "but, I hear  no answer to my question. Should I lend my fifty pieces of gold to my sister's  husband? They mean much to me."  
"Thy sister is a sterling woman whom I do much esteem. Should her husband  come to me and ask to borrow fifty pieces of gold I should ask him for what  purpose he would use it.  
"If he answered that he desired to become a merchant like myself and deal in  jewels and rich furnishings. I would say, 'What knowledge have you of the  ways of trade? Do you know where you can buy at lowest cost? Do you know  where you can sell at a fair price?" Could he say 'Yes' to these questions?"  
"No, he could not," Rodan admitted. "He has helped me much in making  spears and he has helped some in the shops."  
"Then, would I say to him that his purpose was not wise. Merchants must learn  their trade. His ambition, though worthy, is not practical and I would not lend  him any gold.  
"But, supposing he could say: 'Yes, I have helped merchants much. I know how  to travel to Smyrna and to buy at low cost the rugs the housewives weave. I  also know many of the rich people of Babylon to whom I can sell these at a  large profit.' Then I would say: 'Your purpose is wise and your ambition  honorable. I shall be glad to lend you the fifty pieces of gold if you can give  me security that they will be returned." But would he say, 'I have no security  other than that I am an honored man and will pay you well for the loan.' Then  would I reply, 'I treasure much each piece of gold. Were the robbers to take it  from you as you journeyed to Smyrna or take the rugs from you as you  returned, then you would have no means of repaying me and my gold would  be gone.'  
"Gold, you see, Rodan, is the merchandise of the lender of money. It is easy  to lend. If it is lent unwisely then it is 94difficult to get back. The wise lender  wishes not the risk of the undertaking but the guarantee of safe repayment.  “Tis well," he continued, "to assist those that are in trouble, 'tis well to help  those upon whom fate has laid a heavy hand. 'Tis well to help those who are  starting that they may progress and become valuable citizens. But help must  be given wisely, lest, like the farmer's ass, in our desire to help we but take  upon ourselves the burden that belongs to another. 
80  
Brought To You By  
http://TheDiamondsMine.com